20 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT GAUDEAMUS IGITUR 


I was in a zoo. There were no animals or cages, but it was still a zoo. It was close to a 
nightmare and it woke me before 0500h. Mario was still asleep, gently lit by the 
window's view of tiny lights down the hill. He lay very still and soundless as always, his 
poor hands folded on his chest, as if awaiting a lily. I put in a plug of Kodiak. His four 
pillows brought Mario's chin to his chest when he slept. I was still producing excess 
saliva, and my one pillow was moist in a way I didn't want to turn on a light and investi¬ 
gate. I didn't feel good at all. A sort of nausea of the head. The feeling seemed worst 
first thing in the morning. I'd felt for almost a week as if I needed to cry for some reason 
but the tears were somehow stopping just millimeters behind my eyes and staying 
there. And so on. 

I got up and went past the foot of Mario's bed to the window to stand on one foot. 
Sometime during the night heavy snow had begun to fall. I had been ordered by deLint 
and Barry Loach to stand on the left foot for fifteen minutes a day as therapy for the 
ankle. The countless little adjustments necessary to balance on one foot worked 
muscles and ligaments in the ankle that were therapeutically unreachable any other 
way. I always felt sort of dickish, standing on one foot in the dark with nothing to do. 

The snow on the ground had a purple cast to it, but the falling and whirling snow was 
virgin white. Yachting-cap white. I stood on my left foot for maybe five minutes tops. 
The Boards and A.P.s 344 were three weeks from tomorrow at 0800 in the C.B.S. 345 
auditorium at B.U. I could hear a night-custodial crew rolling a mop-bucket somewhere 
on another floor. 

This was to be the first A.M. without dawn drills since Interdependence Day, and 
everybody was invited to sleep in until breakfast. There were to be no classes all 



weekend. 

I'd awakened too early yesterday, too. I'd kept seeing Kevin Bain crawling my way in 
my sleep. 

I straightened up my bed and put the pillow's wet side down and put on clean 
sweatpants and some socks that didn't smell foul. 

The closest Mario comes to snoring is a thin sound he makes at the back of his throat. 
The sound is as if he's drawing out the word key over and over. It's not an unpleasant 
sound. I estimated a good 50 cm. of snow on the ground, and it was really coming down. 
In the purple half-light the West Courts' nets were half-buried. Their top halves 
shuddered in a terrible wind. All over the subdormitory I could hear doors rattling 
slightly in their frames, as they did only in a bad wind. The wind gave the snowfall a 
swirling diagonal aspect. Snow was hitting the exterior of the window with a sandy 
sound. The basic view outside the window was that of a briskly shaken paperweight — 
the kind with the Xmas diorama and shakeable snow. The grounds' trees, fences and 
buildings looked toylike and miniaturized somehow. In fact it was hard to distinguish 
new snow falling from extant snow simply whirling around in the wind. It only then 
occurred to me to wonder whether and where we would play today's exhibition meet. 
The Lung wasn't yet up, but the sixteen courts under the Lung wouldn't have accom¬ 
modated more than an A-only meet anyway. A kind of cold hope flared in me because I 
realized this could be cancellation-weather. The backlash of this hope was an even 
worse feeling than before: I couldn't remember ever actively hoping not to have to play 
before. I couldn't remember feeling strongly one way or the other about playing for 
quite a long time, in fact. 

Mario and I had begun to make a practice of keeping the phone console's power on at 
night but turning off the ringer. The console's digital recorder had a light that pulsed 
once for each incoming message. The double flash of the recorder's light set up an 
interesting interference pattern with the red battery-light on the ceiling's smoke 
detector, the two lights flashing in synch on every seventh phone-flash and then moving 
slowly apart in a visual Doppler. A formula for the temporal relation between two 
unsyncopated flashes would translate spatially into the algebraic formula for an ellipse, I 
could see. Pemulis had poured a terrific volume of practical pre-Boards math into my 
head for two weeks, taking his own time and not asking for anything in return, being 
almost suspiciously generous about it. Then, since the Wayne debacle, the little tutorials 
had ceased and Pemulis himself had been very scarce, twice missing meals and several 
times taking the truck for long periods without checking with any of the rest of us about 
our truck-needs. I didn't even try to factor in the rapid single flash of the phone's power- 
unit display on the side of the TP; this would make it some sort calculus thing, and even 
Pemulis had conceded that I was not hardwired for anything past algebra and conic 
sections. 

Every November, between I. Day and the WhataBurger Invitational in Tucson AZ, the 
Academy holds a semipublic exhibition meet for the 'benefit' of E.T.A.'s patrons and 
alumni and friends in the Boston area. The exhibition is followed by a semiformal 
cocktail party and dance in the dining hall, where players are required to appear 
showered and semiformal and available for social intercourse with patrons. Some of 



them all but check our teeth. Last year Heath Pearson had appeared for the gala in a red 
vest and bellboy's cap and furry tail, carrying a little organ and inviting patrons to grind 
the organ while he capered around chattering. C.T. was unamused. The whole 
Fundraiser is a Charles Tavis innovation. C.T. is far better at public relations and pump¬ 
priming than was Himself. The exhibition and gala are possibly the climax of C.T.'s whole 
administrative year. He'd determined that mid-November was the best time for a 
fundraiser, with the weather not yet bad and the tax-year drawing to a close but the 
U.S. holiday season, with its own draining system of demands on goodwill, not yet under 
way. For the past three fiscal years, the Fundraiser's proceeds have all but paid for the 
spring's Southeast tour and the European terre-batu-fest of June-July. 

The exhibition meet involved both genders' A and B teams and was always against 
some foreign junior squad, to give the whole Fundraising affair a patriotic kicker. The 
gentle fiction was that the meet was just one stop for the foreign squad on a whole 
vague general U.S. tour, but in truth C.T. usually flew the foreigners in special, and at 
some expense. We had in the past done battle with teams from Wales, Belize, the 
Sudan, and Mozambique. Cynics might point to an absence of tennis juggernauts among 
the opponents. Last year's Mozambique thing was a particular turkey-shoot, 70-2, and 
there'd been an ugly xeno-racist mood among some of the spectators and patrons, a 
couple of whom cheerily compared the meet to Mussolini's tanks rolling over Ethiopian 
spearchuckers. Y.D.A.U.'s opponents were to be the Quebec Jr. Davis and Jr. Wightman 
Cup teams, and their arrival from M.I.A.-D'Orval 346 was keenly anticipated by Struck and 
Freer, who claimed that the Quebecois Jr. Wightman girls were normally sequestered 
and saw very few coed venues and would be available for broadening intercultural 
relations of all kinds. 

It was improbable that anything was going to be landing on time at Logan in this kind 
of snow, though. 

The wind also produced a desolate moaning in all the ventilation ducts. Mario said 
'key' and sometimes 'ski,' drawing them out. It occurred to me that without some one- 
hitters to be able to look forward to smoking alone in the tunnel I was waking up every 
day feeling as though there was nothing in the day to anticipate or lend anything any 
meaning. I stood on one foot for a couple more minutes, spitting into a coffee can I'd 
left on the floor near the phone from the night before. The implied question, then, 
would be whether the Bob Hope had somehow become not just the high-point of the 
day but its actual meaning. That would be pretty appalling. The Penn 4 that was my 
hand-strengthening ball for November was on the sill against the window. I'd neither 
carried nor squeezed my ball for several days. No one seemed to have noticed. 

Mario cedes me full control over the phone's ringer and answering machine, since he 
has trouble holding the receiver and the only messages he ever gets are In-House ones 
from the Moms. I enjoyed leaving different outgoing messages on the machine. But I 
refused ever to back the messages with music or digitally altered bits of entertainment. 
None of the E.T.A. phones was video-capable — another C.T. decision. Under C.T. the 
Academy's manual of honor codes, rules, and procedures had almost tripled in length. 
Probably our room's best message ever was Ortho Stice doing his deadly C.T.- 
impression, taking 80 seconds to list possible reasons why Mario and I couldn't answer 



the phone and outlining our probable reactions to all possible caller-emotions provoked 
my our unavailability. But at 80 seconds the thing wore thin after a while. Our outgoing 
this week was something like 'This is the disembodied voice of Hal Incandenza, whose 
body is not now able..., 1 and so on, and then the standard invitation to leave a message. 
It was honesty and abstinence week, after all, and this seemed a more truthful message 
to leave than the pedestrian 'This is Hal Incandenza...,' since the caller would pretty 
obviously be hearing a digital recording of me rather than me. This observation owed a 
debt to Pemulis, who for years and with several different roommates has retained the 
same recursive message — This is Mike Pemulis's answering machine's answering 
machine; Mike Pemulis's answering machine regrets being unavailable to take a first- 
order message for Mike Pemulis, but if you'll leave a second-order message at the sound 
of the clapping hand, Mike Pemulis's answering machine will...,' and so on, which has 
worn so thin that very few of Pemulis's friends or customers can abide waiting through 
the tired thing to leave a message, which Pemulis finds congenial, since no really 
relevant caller would be fool enough to leave his name on any machine of Pemulis's 
anyway. 


Plus it was also creepy that, when the face's effulgence becomes the boiled white of 
the Trauma Wing ceiling as he comes up with a start up for air, the apparently real 
nondream Joelle van D. is leaning over the bed's crib-railing, wetting Gately's big 
forehead and horror-rounded lips with a cool cloth, wearing sweatpants and a sort of 
loose brocaded hulpil whose lavender almost matches the selvage on her clean veil. The 
hulpil's neckline is too high for there to be much cleavage-action as she leans over him, 
which Gately regards as probably kind of a mercy. The two brownies Joelle's got in her 
other hand (and her nails are bitten down to the ragged quick, just like Gately's) she 
says she liberated from the nurses' station and brought down for him, since Morris H. 
meant them for him and they're by all just rights his. But she can see he's in no shape to 
swallow, she says. She smells like peaches and cotton, and there's a sweet evil whiff of 
the discount Canadian gaspers so many of the residents smoke, and underneath those 
smells Gately can detect that she's got on a bit of perfume. 347 

To amuse him she says 'And Lo' several times. Gately makes his chest go up and down 
rapidly to signify amusement. He declines either to moo or mew at her, out of 
embarrassment. Her veil this morning has a springy light-purple around the border, and 
the hair framing the veil seems a darker red, duskier, than when she'd first come into 
the House and refused meat. Gately hadn't been much into WYYY or Madame Psychosis, 
but he'd sometimes run into people who were — Organics men, mostly, opium and 
brown heroin, terrible mulled wine — and he feels on top of the febrile pain and the 
creepiness of the amphetaminic-wraith- and Winston-Churchill-face-Joelle-and angelic- 
maternal-Death-Joelle-dreams an odd vividness in himself at being swabbed and maybe 
even generally admired by someone who's an underground local intellectual-dash-art- 
type celebrity. He doesn't know how to explain it, like as if the fact that she's a public 
personage makes him feel somehow physically actuated, like more there-feeling, 
conscious of the way he's holding his face, hesitant to make his barnyard sounds, even 



breathing through his nose so she won't smell his unbrushed teeth. He feels self- 
conscious with her, Joelle can tell, but what's admirable is he has no idea how heroic or 
even romantic he looks, unshaven and intubated, huge and helpless, wounded in service 
to somebody who did not deserve service, half out of his tree from pain and refusing 
narcotics. The last and pretty much only man Joelle ever let herself admire in a romantic 
way had left and wouldn't even face up to why, instead erecting for himself a pathetic 
jealous fantasy about Joelle and his own poor father, whose only interest in Joelle had 
been first aesthetic and then anti-aesthetic. 

Joelle doesn't know that newly sober people are awfully vulnerable to the delusion 
that people with more sober time than them are romantic and heroic, instead of 
clueless and terrified and just muddling through day-by-day like everybody else in AA is 
(except maybe the fucking Crocodiles). 

Joelle says she can't stay long this time: all nonworking residents have to report for 
the House's A.M. daily-meditation meeting, as Gately knows only too well. He isn't sure 
what she means by 'this time.' She describes the newest male resident's weird limbo- 
injury posture, and the way Johnette Foltz has to cut up this Dave guy's supper and drop 
it into his open mouth bit by bit like a bird with a chick. Lifting her face to the ceiling 
makes the linen veil conform to the features of the face below, mouth open wide in 
imitation of a chick. The crewneckish hulpil makes her hair's loose curls look dark and 
her wrists and hands look pale. Her hands's skin is taut and freckled and treed with 
veins. His bed's metal bars keep Gately's rolling eyes from seeing anything much south 
of her thorax until Joelle finishes with the washcloth and retreats to the edge of the 
other bed, which at some point has become empty and the crying guy's chart removed, 
and its crib-railings folded down, and she sits on the edge of the bed and crosses her 
legs, supporting one huarache's heel on the railing's joint, revealing she's got on white 
socks under flesh-colored huaraches and ancient baggy old birch-colored sweatpants 
with B.U.M. down one leg, which Gately's pretty sure he's seen at the Sunday A.M. Big 
Book meeting on Ken Erdedy, and belong to Erdedy, and he feels a flash of something 
unpleasant that she'd be wearing the upscale kid's pants. The A.M. light outside has 
gone from sunny yellow-white to now a kind of old-dime gray, with what looks like 
serious wind. 

Joelle eats the cream-cheese brownies Gately can't eat and works at pulling a kind of 
big notebookish thing out of her broad cloth purse. She talks about last night's St. 
Columbkill's 348 Meeting, where they'd all gone unsupervised because Johnette F. had to 
stay and keep an eye on Glynn who was sick and on Henderson and Willis, who were 
under legal quarantine upstairs. Gately racks his RAM for which fucking night St. 
Columbkill's is. Joelle says how last night's was St. Collie's once-a-month format where 
instead of a Commitment they had that round-robin discussion where somebody in the 
hall spoke for five minutes and then picked the next speaker out of the hall's crowd. 
There'd been a Kentuckian there, which Gately might recall she was from Kentucky? A 
Kentucky newcomer there, Wayne something, a real damaged-looking boy who hailed 
from the good old Blue Grass State but of late resided in a disconnected drainage pipe 
off a watershed facility down in the Allston Spur, he'd said. This guy, she said, said he 
was nineteen or thereabout, looked 40-some+, had clothes that looked to be 



decomposing on him even as he stood at the podium, had a ripe odor of drainage about 
him that produced hankies as far back as the fourth row, which he explained the odor 
by admitting his residential drainage pipe was in fact 'mostly' disconnected, like as in 
little-used. Joelle's voice is nothing like the hollow resonant radio-voice and she uses her 
hands a lot to talk, trying to recreate the whole thing for Gately. Trying to give him a 
little bit of a meeting, Gately realizes, with a slight tight smile of disbelief that he can't 
dredge up a mental meeting schedule so he'll know what day this is. 

Some of the St. Columbkillers were saying it was the longest single blackout they'd 
ever heard of. This Wayne fellow'd said he had no idea when, why or how he'd ended 
up so far up north as metro Boston ten years after his last memory. Most compelling, 
visually, Wayne had had a deep diagonal furrow in his face, extending from right 
eyebrow to left lip-corner — Joelle traces the length and angle with a ragged-nailed 
finger across her veil — splaying his nose and upper lip and rendering him so violently 
cross-eyed he seemed to address both corners of the front row at the same time. This 
old Wayne boy'd sketched how the facial dent — what Wayne had called 'the Flaw,' 
pointing at it like people might need help seeing what he was talking about — derived 
from his very own personal hard-drinking alcoholic & chicken-farmer Daddy, in the grip 
of the post-binge Horrors and seeing subjective pests in a big way, one day, up and 
hitting Wayne at age nine smack in the face with a hatchet one time when Wayne 
couldn't tell him where a certain Ball jar of distilled spirits had been hidden the day 
before, against the possibility of the Horrors. It had been just him and his Daddy and his 
Maw — "'that was feeble'" — and 7.7 acres of chicken farm, Wayne had said. Wayne 
said the Flaw had just about healed up fine with fresh air and plenty of exercise when 
his Daddy, trying one Monday P.M. to get outside a late lunch of mush and syrup, up 
and clutched his skull, turned red and then blue and then purple, and died. Little Wayne 
had reportedly wiped the face clean of mush, dragged the dead body under the 
farmhouse porch, wrapped it in Purina Chicken-Chow sacks, and told his feeble Maw his 
Daddy had gone off to lay up drunk. The diagonal-dented kid had apparently then gone 
off to school as usual, done some discreet w.o.m. advertising, and had brought home 
with him a different set of boys each day for almost a week, charging them a fiveski a 
head to crawl under the porch and eyeball a bona fried dead man. Late Friday P.M., he 
recollected, he'd set off with hard currency to the billiard establishment where the 
niggers 349 that sold distilled Ball jars to his late Daddy was at, getting set to ' "lay up 
drunk as a cock on jimson." ' The next thing this Wayne boy says he knows, he wakes up 
in the partially disconnected NNE pipe, one millennial decade older and with some ' 
"right nasty"' medical issues the timer's bell prevents him from sharing in detail. 

And this old Wayne boy had up and pointed to Joelle to come speak next. 'Almost as if 
he knew. As if he gut-intuited some sort of kinship, affinity of origin.' 

Gately grunted softly to himself. He figured guys with ten-year blackouts who live in 
pipes probably didn't have to much to go on besides your gut-type intuitions. He knew 
he needed to be reminded that this strange girl was only about three weeks clean and 
still leaching Substances out of her tissues and still utterly clueless, but he felt like he 
resented it whenever he got reminded. Joelle had the big flat book in her lap and was 
looking down at her thumb and flexing it, watching it flex. What was disconcerting was 



that when her head was down the veil hung loose at the same vertical angle as when 
her head was up, only now it was perfectly smooth and untextured, a smooth white 
screen with nothing behind it. A loudspeaker down the hall gave those xylophone dings 
that meant God knows what all the time. 

When Joelle's head came back up, the reassuring little hills and valleys of veiled 
features reappeared behind the screen. Tm going to have to take off here in a second,' 
she said. 'I could come on back after, if you want. I can bring anything you think you'd 
like.' 

Gately hiked an eyebrow at her, to get her to smile. 

'Hopefully since your fever went down they said they'll decide you're out of the woods 
and take that out, finally,' Joelle said, looking at Gately's mouth. 'It's got to hurt, and Pat 
said you'll feel better when you can start quote sharing what you're feeling.' 

Gately hiked both eyebrows. 

'And you can tell me what you'd like brought. Who you'd want to have come. Whom.' 

Moving his left arm north along his chest and throat to get the left hand up to feel at 
his mouth made the whole right side sing with pain. A skin-warmed plastic tube led in 
from the right side and was taped to his right cheek and went into his mouth and went 
down his throat past where his fingers could feel at the back of his mouth. He hadn't 
been able to feel it in his mouth or going down the back of his throat to he didn't want 
to know where, or even the tape on his cheek. He'd had like this like tube in his throat 
the whole time and hadn't even known it. It had been in there so long by the time he 
came up for air he'd gotten like unconsciously used to it and hadn't even known it was 
there. Maybe it was a feeding tube. The tube was probably why he could only mew and 
grunt. He probably didn't have permanent voice damage. Thank God. He made his 
thoughts capitalized and Thanked God several times. He pictured himself at a lavish 
Commitment podium, like at an AA convention, off-handedly saying something that got 
an enormous laugh. 

Either Joelle had some sort of problem with her thumb or she'd just got really 
interested in watching the thumb flex and twiddle. She was saying 'It's strange, not 
knowing it's coming, then standing up there to speak. Folks you don't know. Things I 
don't realize I think til I say them. On the show I was used to knowing quite well what I 
thought before I spoke. This isn't like that.' She seemed to be addressing herself to the 
thumb. 'I took a page from your manual and shared my complaint about the "But For 
the Grace of God," and you were right, they just laughed. But I also ... I hadn't realized til 
I found myself telling them that I'd stopped seeing the "One Day at a Time" and "Keep It 
in the Day" as trite cliches. Patronizing.' Gately noticed she still talks about Recovery- 
issues in a stiff proper intellectualish way she doesn't talk about other stuff with. Her 
way of still keeping it all at arm's length a little. A mental thumb to pretend to look at 
while she talks. It was all right; Gately's own way of keeping it at arm's length at the 
start had involved an actual arm. He pictured her laughing as he tells her that, the veil 
billowing mightily in and out. He smiled around the tube, which Joelle saw as 
encouragement. She said 'And why Pat in counselling keeps telling me just to build a 
wall around each individual 24-hour period and not look over or back. And not to count 
days. Even when you get a chip for 14 days or 30 days, not to add them up. In 



counselling I'd just smile and nod. Being polite. But standing up there last night, I didn't 
even share it aloud, but I realized suddenly that this was why I'd never been able to stay 
off the stuff for more than a couple weeks. I'd always break down, go back. Freebase.' 
She looks up at him. 'I 'based, you know. You knew that. You all see the Intake forms.' 

Gately smiles. 

She said 'This was why I couldn't get off and stay off. Just as the cliche warns. I literally 
wasn't keeping it in the day. I was adding the clean days up in my head.' She cocked her 
head at him. 'Did you ever hear of this fellow Evel Knievel? This motorcycle-jumper?' 

Gately nods slightly, being careful of a tube he now feels. This is why his throat had 
had that raped feeling in it. The tube. He actually has an old cutout action picture of the 
historical Evel Knievel, from an old Life magazine, in a white leather Elvisish suit, in the 
air, aloft, haloed in spotlights, upright on a bike, a row of well-waxed trucks below. 

'At St. Collie only the Crocodiles'd heard of him. My own Daddy'd followed him, cut 
out pictures, as a boy.' Gately can tell she's smiling under there. 'But what I used to do. 
I'd throw away the pipe and shake my fist at the sky and say As God is my fucking 
witness NEVER AGAIN , os of this minute right here I QUIT FOR ALL TIME.' She also has 
this habit of absently patting the top of her head when she talks, where little barrettes 
and spongy clamps hold the veil in place. 'And I'd bunker up all white-knuckled and stay 
straight. And count the days. I was proud of each day I stayed off. Each day seemed 
evidence of something, and I counted them. I'd add them up. Line them up end to end. 
You know?' Gately knows very well but doesn't nod, lets her do this on just her own 
steam. She says 'And soon it would get... improbable. As if each day was a car Knievel 
had to clear. One car, two cars. By the time I'd get up to say like maybe about 14 cars, it 
would begin to seem like this staggering number. Jumping over 14 cars. And the rest of 
the year, looking ahead, hundreds and hundreds of cars, me in the air trying to clear 
them.' She left her head alone and cocked it. 'Who could do it? How did I ever think 
anyone could do it that way?' 

Gately remembered some evil fucking personal detoxes. Broke in Maiden. Bent with 
pleurisy in Salem. MCl/Billerica during a four-day lockdown that caught him short. He 
remembered Kicking the Bird for weeks on the floor of a Revere Holding cell, courtesy of 
the good old Revere A.D.A. Locked down tight, a bucket for a toilet, the Holding cell hot 
but a terrible icy draft down near the floor. Cold Turkey. Abrupt Withdrawal. The Bird. 
Being incapable of doing it and yet having to do it, locked in. A Revere Holding cage for 
92 days. Feeling the edge of every second that went by. Taking it a second at a time. 
Drawing the time in around him real tight. Withdrawing. Any one second: he 
remembered: the thought of feeling like he'd be feeling this second for 60 more of these 
seconds — he couldn't deal. He could not fucking deal. He had to build a wall around 
each second just to take it. The whole first two weeks of it are telescoped in his memory 
down into like one second — less: the space between two heartbeats. A breath and a 
second, the pause and gather between each cramp. An endless Now stretching its gull- 
wings out on either side of his heartbeat. And he'd never before or since felt so 
excruciatingly alive. Living in the Present between pulses. What the White Flaggers talk 
about: living completely In The Moment. A whole day at a crack seemed like tit, when 
he Came In. For he had Abided With The Bird. 



But this inter-beat Present, this sense of endless Now — it had vanished in Revere 
Holding along with the heaves and chills. He'd returned to himself, moved to sit on the 
bunk's edge, and ceased to Abide because he no longer had to. 

His right side is past standing, but the hurt is nothing like the Bird's hurt was. He 
wonders, sometimes, if that's what Ferocious Francis and the rest want him to walk 
toward: Abiding again between heartbeats; tries to imagine what kind of impossible 
leap it would take to live that way all the time, by choice, straight: in the second, the 
Now, walled and contained between slow heartbeats. Ferocious Francis's own sponsor, 
the nearly dead guy they wheel to White Flag and call Sarge, says it all the time: It's a 
gift, the Now: it's AA's real gift: it's no accident they call it The Present. 

'And yet it wasn't til that poor new pipe-fellow from home pointed at me and hauled 
me up there and I said it that I realized,' Joelle said. 'I don't have to do it that way. I get 
to choose how to do it, and they'll help me stick to the choice. I don't think I'd realized 
before that I could — I can really do this. I can do this for one endless day. I can. Don.' 

The look he was giving her was meant to like validate her breakthrough and say yes 
yes she could, she could as long as she continued to choose to. She was looking right at 
him, Gately could tell. But he'd also gotten a personal prickly chill all over from his own 
thinking. He could do the dextral pain the same way: Abiding. No one single instant of it 
was unendurable. Here was a second right here: he endured it. What was undealable- 
with was the thought of all the instants all lined up and stretching ahead, glittering. And 
the projected future fear of the A.D.A., whoever was out there in a hat eating Third 
World fast food; the fear of getting convicted of Nuckslaughter, of V.I.P.-suffocation; of 
a lifetime on the edge of his bunk in M.C.I. Walpole, remembering. It's too much to think 
about. To Abide there. But none of it's as of now real. What's real is the tube and 
Noxzema and pain. And this could be done just like the Old Cold Bird. He could just 
hunker down in the space between each heartbeat and make each heartbeat a wall and 
live in there. Not let his head look over. What's unendurable is what his own head could 
make of it all. What his head could report to him, looking over and ahead and reporting. 
But he could choose not to listen; he could treat his head like G. Day or R. Lenz: clueless 
noise. He hadn't quite gotten this before now, how it wasn't just the matter of riding out 
the cravings for a Substance: everything unendurable was in the head, was the head not 
Abiding in the Present but hopping the wall and doing a recon and then returning with 
unendurable news you then somehow believed. If Gately got out of this, he decided, he 
was going to take the Knievel picture off his wall and mount it and give it to Joelle, and 
they'd laugh, and she'd call him Don or The Bimster, etc. 

Gately rolls his eyes way over to the right to see Joelle again, who she's using both 
pale hands to get the big book open on her sweatpants' lap. Gray windowlight shines on 
clear plastic sheets like little laminates inside the thing. 

'...idea to haul this out last night and was looking at it. I wanted to "show you my own 
personal Daddy,' she says. She's holding the photo album out at him, wide open, like a 
kindergarten teacher at storytime. Gately makes a production of squinting. Joelle comes 
over and rests the big album on the top of Gately's crib-railing, peering down over the 
top and pointing at a snapshot in its little square sleeve. 

'Right there's my Daddy.' In front of a low white porch-railing, a generic lean old guy 



with lines around his nose from squinting into sunlight and the composed smile of 
somebody that's been told to smile. A skinny dog at his side, half in profile. Gately's 
more interested in how the shadow of whoever took the photo is canted into the shot's 
foreground, darkening half the dog. 

'And that's one of the dogs, a pointer that got hit right after that by a UPS truck out to 
104,' she says. 'Where no animal with a lick of sense would think it had business being. 
My Daddy never names dogs. That one's just called the one that got hit by the UPS 
truck.' Her voice is different again. 

Gately tries to Abide in seeing what she's pointing at. Most of the rest of the page's 
pictures are of farm-type animals behind wooden fences, looking the way things look 
that can't smile, that don't know a camera's looking. Joelle said her personal Daddy was 
a low-pH chemist, but her late mother's own Daddy had left them a farm, and Joelle's 
Daddy moved them out there and jick-jacked around with farming, mostly as an excuse 
to keep lots of pets and stick experimental low-pH stuff in the soil. 

At some point in here an all-business nurse comes in and fucks with the I.V. bottles, 
then hunkers down and changes the catheter-receptacle under the bed, and for a 
second Gately likes to die of embarrassment. Joelle seems not even to be pretending 
not to notice. 

'And this right here's a bull we used to call Mr. Man.' Her slim thumb moves from shot 
to shot. The sunlight in Kentucky looks bright-yellower than NNE's. The trees are a 
meaner green and have got weird mossy shit hanging from them. 'And this right here's a 
mule called Chet that could jump the fence and used to get at everybody's flowers out 
along Route 45 til Daddy had to put him down. This is a cow. This right here's Chet's 
mama. It's a mare. I don't recollect any kind of name except "Chet's Mama." Daddy'd let 
her out to neighbors that really did farm, to sort of make up for folks' flowers.' 

Gately nods studiously at each photo, trying to Abide. He hasn't thought about the 
wraith or the wraith-dream once since he woke up from the dream where Joelle was 
Mrs. Waite as a maternal Death-figure. Next life's Chet's Mama. He opens his eyes wide 
to clear his head. Joelle's head is down, looking down at the open album from overhead. 
Her veil hangs loose and blank again, so close he could reach his left hand up and lift it if 
he wanted. The open book she's moving her hand around in gives Gately an idea he 
can't believe he's only having now. Except he worries because he isn't left-handed. 
Which is to say SINISTRAL. Joelle's got her thumb by a weird old sepia shot of the ass 
and hunched back of some guy scrabbling up the slope of a roof. 'Uncle Lum,' she says, 
'Mr. Riney, Lum Riney, my Daddy's partner over to the shop, that breathed some kind of 
fume at the shop when I was little, and got strange, and now he'll always try and climb 
up on top of shit, if you let him.' 

He winces at the pain of moving his left arm to put a hand on her wrist to get her 
attention. Her wrist is thin across the top but oddly deep, thick-seeming. Gately gets her 
to look at him and takes the hand off her wrist and uses it to mime writing awkwardly in 
the air, his eyes rolling a bit from the pain of it. This is his idea. He points at her and then 
out the window and circles his hand back to her. He refuses to grunt or moo to 
emphasize anything. His forefinger is twice the size of her thumb as he again mimes 
holding an implement and writing on the air. He makes such a big slow obvious show of 



it because he can't see her eyes to be sure she gets what he's after. 

If a halfway-attractive female so much as smiles at Don Gately as they pass on the 
crowded street, Don Gately, like pretty much all heterosexual drug addicts, has within a 
couple blocks mentally wooed, shacked up with, married and had kids by that female, all 
in the future, all in his head, mentally dandling a young Gately on his mutton-joint knee 
while this mental Mrs. G. bustles in an apron she sometimes at night provocatively 
wears with nothing underneath. By the time he gets where he's going, the drug addict 
has either mentally divorced the female and is in a bitter custody battle for the kids or is 
mentally happily still hooked up with her in his sunset years, sitting together amid big¬ 
headed grandkids on a special porch swing modified for Gately's mass, her legs in 
support-hose and orthopedic shoes still damn fine, barely having to speak to converse, 
calling each other 'Mother' and 'Papa,' knowing they'll kick within weeks of each other 
because neither could possibly live without the other, is how bonded they've got 
through the years. 

The projective mental union of Gately and Joelle ('M.P.') van Dyne keeps foundering 
on the vision of Gately knee-dandling a kid in a huge blue- or pink-bordered veil, 
however. Or tenderly removing the spongy clamps of Joelle's veil in moonlight on their 
honeymoon in Atlantic City and discovering just like one eye in the middle of her 
forehead or a horrific Churchill-face or something. 350 So the addictive mental long-range 
fantasy gets shaky, but he still can't help envisioning the old X, with Joelle well-veiled 
and crying out And Lo! in that empty compelling way at the moment of orchasm — the 
closest Gately'd ever come to Xing a celebrity was the ragingly addicted nursing-student 
with the head-banging loft, who'd borne an incredible resemblance to the young Dean 
Martin. Having Joelle share personal historical snapshots with Gately leads his mind 
right over the second's wall to envision Joelle, hopelessly smitten with the heroic Don 
G., volunteering to bonk the guy in the hat outside the room over the head and sneak 
Gately and his tube and catheter out of St. E.'s in a laundry cart or whatever, saving him 
from the BPD Finest or Federal crew cuts or whatever direr legal retribution the guy in 
the hat might represent, or else selflessly offering to give him her veil and a big dress 
and let him hold the catheter under the muumuu and sashay right out while she huddles 
under the covers in impersonation of Gately, romantically endangering her recovery and 
radio career and legal freedom, all out of a Liebestod -type consuming love for Gately. 

This last fantasy makes him ashamed, it's so cowardly. And even contemplating a 
romantic thing with a clueless newcomer is shameful. In Boston AA, newcomer-seducing 
is called 13th-Stepping 351 and is regarded as the province of true bottom-feeders. It's 
predation. Newcomers come in so whacked out, clueless and scared, their nervous 
systems still on the outside of their bodies and throbbing from detox, and so desperate 
to escape their own interior, to lay responsibility for themselves at the feet of 
something as seductive and consuming as their former friend the Substance. To avoid 
the mirror AA hauls out in front of them. To avoid acknowledging their old dear friend 
the Substance's betrayal, and grieving it. Plus let's not even mention the mirror-and- 
vulnerability issues of a newcomer that has to wear a U.H.I.D veil. One of Boston AA's 
stronger suggestions is that newcomers avoid all romantic relationships for at least a 
year. So somebody with some sober time predating and trying to seduce a newcomer is 



almost tantamount to rape, is the Boston consensus. Not that it isn't done. But the ones 
that do it never have the kind of sobriety anybody else respects or wants for them¬ 
selves. A 13th-Stepper is still running from the mirror himself. 

Not to mention that a Staffer seducing a new resident he's supposed to be there to 
help would be dicking over Pat Montesian and Ennet House on a grand scale. 

Gately sees it's probably no accident that his vividest Joelle-fantasies are coincident 
with flight-from-Finest-and-legal-responsibility fantasies. That his head's real fantasy is 
this newcomer helping him avoid, escape, and run, joining him later in like Kentucky on 
a modified porch swing. He's still pretty new himself: wanting somebody else to take 
care of his mess, somebody else to keep him out of his various cages. It's the same 
delusion as the basic addictive-Substance-delusion, basically. His eyes roll up in his head 
at disgust with himself, and stay there. 


I went down the hall to take out the tobacco and brush my teeth and rinse out the 
Spiru-Tein can, which had gotten an unpleasant crust along the sides. The subdorm halls 
were curved and had no corners as such, but you can see at most three doors and the 
jamb of the fourth from any point in the hall before the curve extrudes into your line of 
sight. I wondered briefly whether it was true that small children believed their parents 
could see them even around corners and curves. 

The high wind's moan and doors' rattle were worse in the uncarpeted hall. I could 
hear faint sounds of early-morning weeping in certain rooms beyond my line of sight. 
Lots of the top players start the A.M. with a quick fit of crying, then are basically hale 
and well-wrapped for the rest of the day. 

The walls of the subdorms' hallways are dinner-mint blue. The walls of the rooms 
themselves are cream. All the woodwork is dark and varnished, as is the guilloche that 
runs below all E.T.A. ceilings; and the dominant odor in the hallways is always a mixture 
of varnish and tincture of benzoin. 

Someone had left a window open by the sinks in the boys' room, and a hump of snow 
lay on the sill, and on the floor beneath the window by the sink on the end, whose hot- 
water pipe shrieks, was a parabolic dusting of snow, already melting at the apex. I 
turned on the lights and the exhaust fan kicked on with them; for some reason I could 
barely stand its sound. When I put my head out the window the wind came from 
nowhere and everywhere, the snow swirling in funnels and eddies, and there were little 
grains of ice in the snow. It was brutally cold. Across the East Courts, the paths were ob¬ 
scured, and the pine's branches were near horizontal under their snow's weight. 
Schtitt's transom and observation tower looked menacing; it was still dark and snow- 
free on the lee side facing Comm.-Ad. The sight of distant ATHSCME fans displacing 
great volumes of snowy air northward is one of the better winter views from our hilltop, 
but visibility was now too poor to make out the fans, and the liquid hiss of the snow was 
too total to make out whether the fans were even on. The Headmaster's House wasn't 
much more than a humped shape off by the north tree-line, but I could picture poor C.T. 
at the living room window in leather slippers and Scotch-plaid robe, seeming to pace 
even when standing still, raising and lowering the antenna of the phone in his hand. 



with several calls out already to Logan, M.I.A.-Dorval, WeatherNet-9000's recorded 
update, heavy-browed figures in Quebec's O.N.A.N.T.A. office, C.T.'s forehead a wash¬ 
board and lips moving soundless as he brainstormed his way toward a state of Total 
Worry. 

I brought my head back in when I could no longer feel my face. I made my little 
ablutions. I hadn't had to go to the bathroom in a serious way in three days. 

The digital display up next to the ceiling's intercom read 11-18-EST0456. 

When the whap-whap of the bathroom door subsided I heard a quiet voice with an 
odd tone farther up around the curve of the hallway. It turned out that good old Ortho 
Stice was sitting in a bedroom-chair in front of a hall window. He was facing the 
window. The window was closed, and he had his forehead up against the glass, either 
talking or chanting to himself very quietly. The whole lower part of the window was 
fogged with his breath. I came up behind him, listening. The back of his head was that 
shark-belly gray-white of crew cuts so short the scalp shows through. I was more or less 
right behind his chair. I couldn't tell whether he was talking to himself or chanting 
something. He didn't turn around even when I rattled my toothbrush in the NASA glass. 
He had on his classic Darknesswear: black sweatshirt, black sweatpants on which he'd 
had a red and gray E.T.A. silkscreened down both legs. His feet were bare on the cold 
floor. I was standing right beside the chair, and he still didn't look up. 

'Who's that now?' he said, staring straight ahead through the window. 

'Hi Orth. 1 

'Hal. You're up kind of early.' 

I rattled my toothbrush a little to indicate a shrug. 'You know. Up and about.' 

'What's the matter?' 

'What do you mean?' I asked. 

'Your voice. Shoot, are you crying? What's the matter?' 

My voice had been neutral and a bit puzzled. 'I'm not crying, Orth.' 

'Well then.' Stice breathed onto the window. He reached up without moving his head 
and scratched the back of his crew cut. 'Up and around. We going to play some furriners 
out there today or what?' 

For the past ten days I'd always felt worst in the early A.M., before dawn. There's 
something elementally horrific about waking before dawn. The window was unobscured 
above The Darkness's breath-line. The snow wasn't swirling or pummelling the window 
as much on the building's east side, but the lee side's absence of wind showed just how 
hard new snow was coming down. It was like a white curtain endlessly descending. The 
sky was lightening here on the east side, a paler gray-white, not unlike Stice's crew-cut. I 
realized that from his position he could see only condensed breath on the window, no 
reflections. I made a few grotesque, distended, pop-eyed faces at him behind his back. 
They made me feel worse. 

I rattled the brush. 'Well, if we do, it's not going to be out there. It's drifting about up 
to the tape on the west nets. They'll have to try to get us indoors somewhere.' 

Stice breathed. 'There's no indoor place's got thirty-six courts, Inc. Winchester Club's 
got twelve is maybe the most. Fucking Mount Auburn's only got eight.' 

'They'll have to move us around to different sites. It's a pain in the ass, but Schtitt's 



done it before. I think the real variable'll be whether the Quebec kids got into Logan last 
night before whenever it was this hit.' 

'Logan'II be shut down you're saying.' 

'But I think we'd have heard if they got in last night. Freer and Struck were keeping 
tabs on an F.A.A. link ever since supper, Mario said.' 

'Boys are looking to get X'd by some slow-witted hairy-legged foreign girls or what?' 

'My guess is they're stuck up at Dorval. I'll bet C.T. is on the case even now. Get some 
sort of announcement at breakfast, probably.' 

This was a clear opening for The Darkness to do a quick C.T. impression, wondering 
aloud over the phone to the Quebecois coach whether he, C.T., should press for them to 
charter ground transport from Montreal or else rather urge them not to risk travel 
through the Concavity in a storm in such a generous but disappointed gesture the 
Quebecois would think busing the 400 clicks to Boston in a blizzard was his own 
generous idea, C.T. wholly open, opening all different psych-strategies to the coach's 
inspection, with the frantic ruffling sound of the coach's French-English dictionary loud 
in the phone's background. But Stice just sat there with his forehead against the glass. 
His bare feet were tapping some sort of rhythm on the floor. The hallway was freezing, 
and his toes had a faint blue tinge. He blew air out of his lips in a tight sigh, making his 
fat cheeks flap a little; we called this his horse-sound. 

'Were you talking to yourself out here, or chanting, or what?' 

A silence ensued. 

'Heard this one joke,' Stice said finally. 

'Let's hear it.' 

'You want to hear it?' 

'I could use a quality laugh right now. Dark,' I said. 

'You too?' 

Another silence ensued. Two different people were weeping at different pitches 
behind closed doors. A toilet flushed on the second floor. One of the weepers was 
nearly skirling, an inhuman keening sound. There was no way to tell which E.T.A. male it 
was, which door back down past the walls' curve. 

The Darkness scratched the back of his head again without moving his head. His hands 
looked almost luminous against the black sleeves. 

'There's these three statisticians gone duck hunting,' he said. He paused. 'They're like 
statisticians by trade.' 

'I'm with you so far.' 

'And they gone off hunting duck, and they're hunkered down in the muck of a duck 
blind, for hunting, in waders and hats and all, your top-of-the-line Winchester double- 
aughts, so on. And they're quacking into one of them kazoos duck hunters always quack 
into.' 

'Duck-calls,' I said. 

'There you go.' Stice tried to nod against the window. 'Well and here comes this one 
duck come flying on by overhead.' 

'Their quarry. The object of their being out there.' 

'Damn straight, their raisin-debt and what have you, and they're getting set to blast 



the son of a whore into feathers and goo,' Stice said. 'And the first statistician, he brings 
up his Winnie and lets go, and the recoil goes and knocks him back on his ass kersplat in 
the muck, and but he's missed the duck, just low, they saw. And so the second 
statistician he up and fires then, and back he goes too on his ass too, these Winnies got 
a fucker of a recoil on them, and back on his ass the second one goes, from firing, and 
they see his shot goes just high.' 

'Misses the duck as well.' 

'Misses her just high. At which and then the third statistician commences to whooping 
and jumping up and down to beat the band, hollering "We got him, boys, we done got 
him!" 

Someone was crying out in a bad dream and someone else was yelling for quiet. I 
wasn't even pretending to laugh. Stice didn't seem to expect me to. He shrugged 
without moving his head. His forehead had not once left the cold glass. 

I stood next to him in silence and held my NASA glass with the toothbrush and looked 
out over the top of Stice's head through the window's upper half. The snowfall was 
intense and looked silky. The East Courts' pavilion's green canvas roof bowed ominously 
down, its white GATORADE logo obscured. A figure was out there, not under the shelter 
of the pavilion but sitting in the bleachers behind the east Show Courts, leaning back 
with his elbows on one level and bottom on the next and feet stretched out below, not 
moving, wearing what seemed to be puffy and bright enough to be a coat, but getting 
buried by snow, just sitting there. It was impossible to tell the person's age or sex. 
Church spires off in Brookline were darkening as the sky lightened behind them. The 
beginning of dawn looked like moonlight through the snow. Several people were at their 
vehicles' windshields with scrapers down along Commonwealth Avenue. Their images 
were tiny and dark and fluttered; the Avenue's line of buried parked cars looked like 
igloo after igloo, some sort of Eskimo tract-housing thing. It had never before snowed 
like this in mid-November. A snow-covered B train labored uphill like a white slug. It 
seemed clear that the T would be suspending routes before long. The snow and cold 
sunrise gave everything a confected quality. The portcullis between the driveway and 
the parking lot was half up, probably to keep it from being frozen closed. I couldn't see 
who was in the portcullis's security booth. The attendants always came and went, most 
of them from the Ennet House place, trying to 'recover.' The flagpole's two flags were 
frozen and stuck right out straight, turning stiffly from side to side in the wind, like 
someone in a neck-brace, instead of flapping. The E.T.A. physical-post mailbox just 
inside the portcullis had a mohawk of snow. The whole scene had an indescribable 
pathos to it. Slice's fogged breath kept me from seeing anything closer than the mailbox 
and East Courts. The light was starting to diffract into colors at the perimeter of Slice's 
breath-fog on the window. 

'Schacht heard that joke down at the Cranial place from some B.U. fellow with just 
terrible facial pain, he said,' Stice said. 

'I'm going to go ahead and ask the question, D-man.' 

'It's a statistics joke. You got to know your medials means and modes.' 

'I get the joke, Orth. The question is how come you've got your forehead all up against 
the window like that when your breath's keeping you from seeing anything. What are 



you trying to look at? And isn't your forehead getting kind of cold?' 

Stice didn't nod. He made his horse-sound again. He had always had the face of a fat 
man on a fit man's lean body. I hadn't noticed before that he had an odd little teardrop 
of extra flesh low down on his right jowl, like a bit of skin with mole-aspirations. He said 
'The forehead stopped feeling cold a couple hours back, when I lost all my feeling in it.' 

'You've been sitting here with bare feet and your forehead against the glass for a 
couple hours?' 

'More like four, I think.' 

I could hear a night-custodial crew laughing and clanking a bucket right below us. Only 
one was laughing. It was Kenkle and Brandt. 

'My next question's pretty obvious, then, Orth.' 

He gave another awkward shrug that didn't involve his head. 'Well. It's sort of 
embarrassing, here, Inc,' he said. He paused. 'It's stuck is what it is.' 

'Your forehead's stuck to the window?' 

'Best as I can recollect I wake up, it's just after 0100, fuckin Coyle's having them 
discharges again and there's no sleeping through that, boy.' 

'I shudder to think, Orth.' 

'And Coyle 'course just doesn't even hit the light just hauls out a fresh sheet from the 
stack under his bunk and goes right back to sawing logs. And I'm wide awake by this 
point in time, though, and then I couldn't get back under.' 

'Couldn't get back to sleep.' 

'Something's real wrong, I can tell,' The Darkness said. 'Pre-Fundraiser nerves? The 
WhataBurger coming up? You feel yourself starting to climb plateaux, starting to play 
the way you came here hoping one day to play, and part of you doesn't believe it, it 
feels wrong. I went through this. Believe me, I can und—' 

Stice automatically tried to shake his head and then gave a small cry of pain. 'Not that. 
None of that. Long fucking story. I'm not even sure I'd want anybody to believe it. Forget 
that part. The point's I'm up there — I'm lying there real sweaty and hot and jittered. I 
jump on down and got a chair and brang it out here to set where it's cool.' 

'And where you don't have to lie there and contemplate Coyle's sheet slowly ripening 
under his bunk,' I said, shuddering a little. 

'And it's just starting to snow, then, out. It's about maybe like 0100. I thought how I'd 
just set and watch the snow a little and settle on down and then go grab some sack 
down in the V.R.' He scratched at the reddening back of his scalp again. 

'And as you watched, you rested your head pensively against the glass for just a 
second.' 

'And that was all she wrote. Forgot the forehead was sweated up. Whammo. 
Kertwanged my own self. Just like remember when Rader and them got IngersolI to 
touch his tongue on that net-post last New Year's? Stuck here fucking tight as that 
tongue, Hal. Hell of a lot more total stuck area, too, than Ingersoll. He only did lose that 
smidgeon off the tip. Inc, I tried to pull her off her about 0230, and there was this 
fucking... sound. This sound and a feeling like the skin'll give before the bind will, sure. 
Frozen stuck. And this here's more skin than I care to say goodbye to, buddy-ruff.' He 
was speaking just above a whisper. 



'Jesus, and you've just been sitting here all this time.' 

'Well shit I was embarrassed. And it never got quite bad enough to yell out. I kept 
thinking if it gets a little worse I'll go on and yell out. And then along about 03 I quit 
feeling the forehead altogether.' 

'You've just been sitting here waiting for someone to happen along. Chanting quietly 
to keep up your courage.' 

'I was just praying like hell it wouldn't be Pemulis. God only knows what that son of a 
whore'd've thunk of to do to me here all helpless and immobilated. And Troeltsch is 
sawing logs just inside that door there, with his fucking mike and cable and ambitions. 
I've been praying he don't wake up. And let's don't even mention that son of a bitch 
Freer.' 

I looked at the door. 'But that's Axhandle's single. What would Troeltsch be doing 
sleeping in Axhandle's room?' 

Ortho shrugged. 'Trust that I've had plenty of time to listen and identify different folks' 
snores, Inc.' 

I looked from Stice to Axford's door and back. 'So you've just been sitting here 
listening to sleep-noises and watching your breath expand and freeze on the window?' I 
said. Imagining it seemed somehow unendurable: me just sitting there, stuck, well 
before sunrise, alone, too embarrassed to call out, my own exhalations fouling the 
window and denying me even a view to divert attention from the horror. I stood there 
horrified, admiring The Darkness's ballsy calm. 

'There was a kind of real bad half-hour when my upper lip up and got stuck too, in the 
breath, when the breath froze. But I breathed the sucker loose. I breathed real hot and 
fast. Goddamn near hyper-v'd. I was scared if I passed out I'd slump on forward and the 
whole face'd get stuck. Goddamn forehead's bad enough.' 

I put my toothbrush and NASA glass down on the cantilevered vent-module. Rooms' 
vents were recessed, hallway-vents protrusive. E.T.A.'s annular heating system 
produced a lubricated hum I had stopped really hearing years ago. The Headmaster's 
House still had oil heat; it always sounded like a maniac was hammering at the pipes far 
below. 

'Dark, prepare yourself mentally,' I said. 'I'm going to help pull you loose.' 

Stice didn't seem to hear this. He seemed oddly preoccupied for a man occlusively 
sealed to a frozen window. He was feeling at the back of his head with real vigor, which 
is what he did when he was preoccupied. 'You believe in shit, Hal?' 

'Shit?' 

'I don't know. Little-kid shit. Telekiniption. Ghosts. Parabnormal shit.' 

'Just going to get around behind you and yank and we'll pop you right off,' I said. 

'Somebody did come by before,' he said. 'There was somebody standing back there 
about maybe an hour back. But he just stood there. Then he went away. Or... it.' A full- 
body shiver. 

'It'll be like that last little bit of ankle-tape. We'll pull you back so hard and fast you 
won't feel a thing.' 

'I'm getting these real unpleasant memories of that piece of IngersolPs tongue on 
Nine's net-post that stayed there til spring.' 



'This is no saliva-and-subzero-metal situation. Dark. This is some freakish occlusive 
seal. Glass doesn't conduct heat like metal conducts heat.' 

'There ain't too fucking much heat involved in this window right here, buddy-ruff.' 

'And I'm not sure what you mean, paranormal. I believed in vampires when I was 
small. Himself allegedly used to see his father's ghost on stairways sometimes, but then 
again toward the end he used to see black-widow spiders in his hair, too, and claimed I 
wasn't speaking sometimes when I was sitting right there speaking to him. So we kind of 
wrote it all off. Orth, I guess I don't know what to think about paranormal shit.' 

Then plus I think something bit me. On the back of the head here, some bug that knew 
I was helpless and couldn't see.' Stice dug again at the red area behind his ear. There 
was a kind of weltish bump there. It wasn't in a vampire-related area of the neck. 

'And good old Mario says he's seen paranormal figures, and he's not kidding, and 
Mario doesn't lie,' I said. 'So belief-wise I don't know what to think. Subhadronic 
particles behave ghostishly. I think I withhold all pre-judgment on the whole thing.' 

'Well all right then. It was good it was you come by then.' 

'The big thing's going to be to stiffen the old neck. Dark, to avoid whiplash. We'll pull 
you off there like a cork from a bottle of Moet.' 

'Pull my sorry ass off here, Inc, and I'll take and show you some parabnormal shit 
that'll shake your personal tree but good,' Stice said, bracing, "n't said nothing to 
nobody but Lyle about it, and I'm sick of the secretness of it. You won't pre-formulize 
any judgments, Inc, I know.' 

'You're going to be fine,' I said. I got right behind Stice and bent slightly and got an arm 
around his chest. His wooden chair creaked as I braced my knee against it. Stice began 
breathing fast and hard. His parotitic jowls flapped a little as he breathed. Our cheeks 
were almost pressed together. I told him I was going to pull on the count of Three. I 
actually pulled on Two, so he couldn't brace himself. I pulled back as hard as I could, and 
after a stutter of resistance Stice pulled back with me. 

There was a horrible sound. The skin of his forehead distended as we yanked his head 
back. It stretched and distended until a sort of shelf of stretched forehead-flesh half a 
meter long extended from his head to the window. The sound was like some sort of 
elastic from hell. The dermis of Slice's forehead was still stuck fast, but the abundant 
loose flesh of Stice's bulldog face had risen and gathered to stretch and connect his 
head to the window. And for a second I saw what might be considered Stice's real face, 
his features as they would be if not encased in loose jowly prairie flesh: as every mm. of 
spare flesh was pulled up to his forehead and stretched, I got a glimpse of Stice as he 
would appear after a radical face-lift: a narrow, fine-featured, and slightly rodential face, 
aflame with some sort of revelation, looked out at the window from beneath the pink 
visor of stretched spare skin. 

All this took place in less than second. For just an instant we both stayed there, 
straining backward, listening to the little Rice-Krispie sound of his skin's collagen- 
bundles stretching and popping. His chair was leaning way back on its two rear legs. 
Then Stice shrieked in pain: 'Jesus God put it back!' The little second face's blue eyes 
protruded like cartoon eyes. The fine little thin-lipped second mouth was a round coin 
of pain and fear. 



'Put it back put it back put it back! 1 Stice yelled. 

I couldn't just let go, though, for fear that the elastic stretch would snap Stice forward 
into the window and send his face through the glass. I eased him forward, watching the 
chair's front legs descend slowly to the floor; and the tension of the forehead's skin 
decreased, and Slice's full fleshy round face reappeared over the small second face, and 
covered it, and we eased him forward until nothing but a few centimeters of 
decollagenated forehead-skin hanging and sagging at about eyelash-level remained as 
evidence of the horrific stretch. 

'Jesus God,' Stice panted. 

'You are really and truly stuck, Orth.' 

'Fuck me skating did that ever hurt.' 

I tried to rotate a kink out of my shoulder. 'We're going to have to thaw it off. Dark.' 

'You're not getting close to this forehead with a saw, bud. I'll set right-cheer till spring 
first, see if I don't.' 

Then Jim Troeltsch's towering A.M.-cowlick and then face and fist emerged through 
Axford's doorway just over Stice's hunched shoulder. Stice had been right. Being in 
somebody else's room even after Lights Out was an infraction; staying there overnight 
was too far out even to mention in the regulations. 'Reports of screaming have reached 
us here in the Eyewitness News-Center,' Troeltsch said into his fist. 

'The fuck out of here, Troeltsch,' Stice said. 

'Thaw, Ortho. Warm water. Heat the window. Hot water. Dissolve the adhesion. 
Heating pad. Hot pack from Loach's office or something.' 

'Loach's door can't be dickied,' Stice said. 'Don't wake him up on Fundraiser day yet.' 

Troeltsch extended the fist. 'Reports of high-pitched screams have led this reporter to 
an unfolding scene of dramatic crisis, and we're going to attempt to get a word with the 
youngster at the center of all the commotion.' 

'Tell him to pipe down and get back with that hand or so help me Jesus, Hal.' 

'The Darkness accidentally put his forehead against the window here when it was wet 
and it froze and he's been out here stuck all night,' I told Troeltsch, ignoring the big fist 
he held to my face. I squeezed Stice's shoulder. Til go get Brandt to rig something 
warm.' 

It was as if some tacit agreement had been reached not even to bring up Troeltsch's 
being in Axford's room or where Axford was. It was hard to know which would be more 
disturbing, Axford's not being in his room all night or Axford being in there behind the 
ajar door, meaning Troeltsch and Axford had both spent the night in one small single 
with exactly one bed. The universe seemed to have aligned itself so that even 
acknowledging it would violate some tacit law. Troeltsch seemed oblivious to any 
appearance of impropriety or unthinkable possibilities. It was hard to imagine he'd be 
this obnoxious if he felt he had something to be discreet about. He was standing on 
tiptoe to see over the window's breath-line, one hand cupped over his ear as if to hold a 
headset. He whistled softly. 'Plus in addition now reports of mind-boggling snowfall are 
coming in to the News-Center.' 

I grabbed my toothbrush and NASA glass from the vent's protrusion; since the Betel 
Caper, 352 only the worst kind of naif leaves his toothbrush unattended around E.T.A. 



'Keep an eye on Stice and my NASA glass right there, Jim, if you would.' 

'Any comment on the mixture of pain, cold, embarrassment, and weather-related 
feelings you must be feeling, Mr. Stice is it?' 

'Don't leave me immobilated with Troeltsch, man, Hal. He's going to make me talk to 
his hand.' 

'A weather-related drama unfolding around the original plight of an embarrassed man 
trapped by his own forehead,' Troeltsch was saying into his fist, facing his own reflection 
in the window, trying with the other big hand to quash the cowlick, as I trotted and slid 
to a stop in my socks just past the door to the stairwell. 

Kenkle and Brandt were ageless in the special desiccated way janitors are ageless, 
somewhere between thirty-five and sixty. They were inseparable and essentially 
unemployable. Boredom had years ago led us to Lateral Alice Moore's minimally crypto- 
protected employee files, and Brandt's file had listed his S.-B. I.Q. as Submoronic-to- 
Moronic. He was bald and somehow at once overweight and wiry. Both right and left 
temples carried red jagged surgical scars of unknown origin. His affective range 
consisted of different intensities of grin. He lived with Kenkle in an attic apartment in 
Roxbury Crossing overlooking Madison Park High School's locked and cordoned 
playground, famed site of unsolved ritual mutilations in the Year of the Perdue 
Wonderchicken. His major attraction for Kenkle seemed to consist in the fact that he 
neither walked away nor interrupted when Kenkle was speaking. Even in the stairwell I 
could hear Kenkle discoursing on their Thanksgiving plans and directing Brandt's mop- 
work. Kenkle was technically black, as in Negroid, though he was more the burnt-sienna 
color of a spoiled pumpkin. But his hair was a black person's hair, and he wore it in thick 
dreadlocks that looked like a crown of wet cigars. An academic diamond in the very 
rough Roxbury Crossing, he'd received his doctorate in low-temperature physics from 
U.Mass. at twenty-one and taken a prestigious sinecure at the U.S. Office of Naval 
Research, then at twenty-three had been court-martialed out of the O.N.R. for offenses 
that changed each time you asked him. Some event between twenty-one and twenty- 
three seemed to have broken him at several strategic points, and he'd retreated from 
Bethesda back to the front stoop of his old Roxbury Crossing apartment building, where 
he read Ba'hai texts whose jackets he covered with intricately folded newspaper, and 
spat spectacular parabolas of quivering phlegm into New Dudley Street. He was dark- 
freckled and carbuncular and afflicted with excess phlegm. He was an incredible spitter, 
and alleged his missing incisors had been removed 'for facilitating the expectoratory 
process.' We all suspected he was either hypomanic or 'drine-addicted or both. His 
expression was very serious at all times. He discoursed nonstop to poor Brandt, using 
spit as a sort of conjunction between clauses. He spoke loudly because they both wore 
earplugs of expanding foam — people's nightmare-cries gave them the fantods. Their 
custodial technique consisted of Kenkle spitting with pinpoint accuracy onto whatever 
surface Brandt was to clean next and Brandt trotting like a fine hunting dog from glob to 
glob, listening and grinning, laughing when appropriate. They were moving away from 
me down the hall toward the second floor's east window, Brandt making great shining 
arcs with his doll's-head mop, Kenkle pulling the gunmetal bucket and lobbing signifying 
phlegm over Brandt's bent back. 



'And then the Yuletide season, Brandt my friend Brandt — Christmas — Christmas 
morning — What is the essence of Christmas morning but the childish co-eval of 
venereal interface, for a child? — A present, Brandt — Something you have not earned 
and which formerly was out of your possession is now in your possession — Can you sit 
there and try to say there is no symbolic relation between unwrapping a Christmas 
present and undressing a young lady?' 

Brandt bobbed and mopped, uncertain whether to laugh. 

Himself had met Kenkle and Brandt on the T (Kenkle and Brandt apparently rode the T 
at night, recreationally), trying somehow to make it up to Enfield from the Back Bay via 
the Orange Line, 353 and somewhat the worse for wear. Kenkle and Brandt not only got 
Himself onto the right color train and kept him propped up between them all the way 
up the eternity of Comm. Ave., they'd seen him safely down the T-stop's steep iron 
stairs and across traffic and up the hill's serpentine driveway to the portcullis, and had 
been invited in at 0200 by Himself to continue whatever low-temperature discussion he 
and Kenkle had been having as Brandt carried Himself up the hill in a fireman's carry 
(Kenkle recalls that night's discussion being about the human nose as an erectile organ, 
but the only really sure bet is that it was one-sided); and the duo had ended up being 
cast as black-veiled Noh-style attendants in Himself's Zero-Gravity Tea Ceremony, and 
had been menially employed at E.T.A. ever since, though always on the graveyard shift, 
since Mr. Harde loathed Kenkle with a passion. 

Kenkle hawked and hit a small strip of dust at the crease of baseboard and floor that 
the mop's arc had missed. 'For I am a missionary man, Brandt, is what I am — Brandt — 
as in give me the straight-forward venereal interface of missionary congress or give me 
nihil and zilch — You know what I am saying? — Give me your best thoughts on 
alternative positions, Brandt — Brandt — For me, for my part at least, I say nix and nihil 
on the rear-entry or you might hear it termed Dog- or Canine-Style interface so favored 
in huts, blue car-tridges, Tantric etchings — Brandt, it's animalistic — Why? — Why you 
say? — Brandt, it is an essentially hunched way to have interface — She hunches, you 
hunch over her — In-ord/notely too much hunching, to my own way of—' 

It was Brandt who heard me as I came up behind them in socks, trying to keep to the 
drier patches. I almost slipped twice. It was still coming down hard outside the east 
window. 

'Otto Brandt here!' Brandt called to me, extending a hand, though I was still several 
meters away. 

Kenkle's dreadlocks protruded from under a plaid hat. He turned with Brandt and 
raised his hand Indianishly in greeting. 'Good prince Hal. Up and dressed in dawn's ear- 
a-ly.' 

'Let me introduce myself,' Brandt said. I shook his hand. 

'In his socks and toothbrush. E.T.A.'s athe-ling, Brandt, whom I will wager rar-e-ly 
hunches.' 

'The Darkness needs you guys upstairs ASAP,' I said, trying to dry a sock against a pant- 
leg. 'Dark's face is stuck to the window and he's in terrible pain and we couldn't pull it 
off and it's going to take hot water, but not too hot.' I indicated the bucket at Kenkle's 
feet. I noticed Kenkle's shoes didn't match. 



'What may we ask is so amusing, then? 1 Kenkle asked. 

'Name's Brandt and pleased to meet you,' Brandt said, out with the hand again. He 
dropped the mop where Kenkle pointed. 

'Troeltsch is with him now, but he's in a bad way,' I said, shaking Brandt's hand. 

'We are in route,' Kenkle said, 'but why the hilarity?' 

'What hilarity?' 

Kenkle looked from me to Brandt to me. 'What hilarity he says. Your face is a hilarity- 
face. It's working hilariously. At first it merely looked a-mused. Now it is open-ly cach- 
inated. You are almost doubled over. You can barely get your words out. You're all but 
slapping your knee. That hilarity, good Prince atheling Hal. I thought all you players were 
compadre-mundos in civilian life.' 

Brandt beamed as he backed down the hall. Kenkle pushed his plaid cap back to 
scratch at some sort of eruption at the hairline. I drew myself up to full height and 
consciously composed my face into something deadly-somber. 'How about now?' 

Brandt had the custodial closet unlocked. There was the sound of a metal bucket 
being filled at the closet's industrial tap. 

Kenkle brought his cap back forward and narrowed his eyes at me. He came up close. 
His eyelashes were clotted with small crisp yellow flakes. There were Struck-like facial 
cysts in various stages of development. Kenkle's breath always smelled vaguely of egg 
salad. He felt at his mouth speculatively for a moment and said 'Somewheres now 
between amused and cach-inated. Mirth-ful, perhaps. The crinkled eyes. The dimples of 
mirth. The exposed gums. We can bounce this off Brandt's best thinking as well, if—' 

From directly overhead came a ceiling-rattling 'GYAAAAAAA' from Stice. I was feeling 
at my face. Some doors opened along the hall, heads protruding. Brandt had a full metal 
bucket and was trying to run to the stairwell, the weight of the bucket canting his 
shoulder and steaming water sloshing onto the clean floor. He stopped with his hand on 
the stairwell door and looked back over his shoulder at us, reluctant to proceed without 
Kenkle. 

'I elect to go with mirthful,' Kenkle said, giving my shoulder a little squeeze as he 
stepped past. I heard him saying different things to the heads in the doorways all the 
way down the hall. 

'Jesus,' I said. Socks or no, I went forward into the really wet mopped area and tried to 
make out my face's expression in the east window. It was now too light, though, 
outside, off all the snow. I looked sketchy and faint to myself, tentative and ghostly 
against all that blazing white. 


PARTIAL TRANSCRIPT OF WEATHER-DELAYED MEETING BETWEEN: 

(1) MR. RODNEY TINE SR., CHIEF OF UNSPECIFIED SERVICES & WHITE HOUSE ADVISER 
ON INTERDEPENDENT RELATIONS; 

(2) MS. MAUREEN HOOLEY, VICE-PRESIDENT FOR CHILDREN'S ENTERTAINMENT, 
INTERLACE TELENTERTAINMENT, INC.; 

(3) MR. CARL E. ('BUSTER') YEE, DIRECTOR OF MARKETING AND PRODUCT- 
PERCEPTION, GLAD FLACCID RECEPTACLE CORPORATION; 



(4) MR. R. TINE JR., DEPUTY REGIONAL COORDINATOR, U.S. OFFICE OF UNSPECIFIED 
SERVICES; AND 

(5) MR. P. TOM VEALS, VINEY AND VEALS ADVERTISING, UNLTD. 

8TH FLOOR STATE HOUSE ANNEX BOSTON MA, U.S.A