11 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT 


1810h.,133 kids and thirteen assorted staff sitting down at suppertime, the E.T.A. 
dining hall taking most of the first floor of West House, a sort of airy atrium-like 
commons, broad and knotty-pine-panelled, the east wall hugely fenestrated and 
columns running the length of the room at center, with ceiling fans high overhead 
circulating the rich and slightly sour smell of bulk-prepared food, the oceanic sound of 
20 different tables' conversation, the flat clink of utensils on plates, much chewing, the 
clank and tinkle of the dishwasher's conveyor belt behind the tray-bus window with its 
sign saying YR MOTHER DOES NOT LIVE HERE; BUS YR TRAY, the muffled shouts of 
kitchen workers in steam. The top upperclassmen get the best table, an unspoken 
tradition, the one nearest the gas fireplace in winter and the AC venting in July, the one 
whose chairs' legs are all pretty much even, both seats and backs with thin corduroy 
cushions in E.T.A. red and gray. The prorectors have their own permanent table near the 
carbs bar; the Syrian Satelliter and enormous peasant-skirted Moment soft-profiler are 
with them. 

The players can all do some very serious eating, some of them still in sweaty sweats 
with salt-stiff hair, too hungry after three-set P.M.s to shower before refueling. Coed 
tables are quietly discouraged. The Boys 18's and the cream of the 16's are all at the 
best table. Ortho ('The Darkness') Stice, E.T.A.'s 16's A-l, has just this P.M. gone three 
sets with Hal Incandenza, seventeen, E.T.A.'s second-best overall boy, taking Hal all the 
way to 7-5 in the third in an off-record nonchallenge exhibitionish engagement Schtitt 
had them play out on the West Courts that afternoon for reasons no one has yet pinned 
down. The match's audience had grown steadily as other challenges got done and 
people came up from the weight room and showers. News that Stice had very nearly 
beaten an Inc nobody but John Wayne has been able to beat has made its figure-eight 
way around the tables and serving line and salad bar, and lots of younger kids keep 
looking to the best table and Stice, sixteen, crew-cutted and still in his black Fila sweats 
with no shirt under the unzipped top, assembling a complex sandwich on his plate, and 
they let their eyes widen and postures sag to communicate awe: R.H.I.P. 

Stice, oblivious, bites into his sandwich like it's the wrist of an assailant. The only 
sound at the table for the first few minutes is of forkwork and mastication and the slight 
gasping sounds of people trying to breathe while they eat. You rarely speak for the first 
few minutes here, eating. Supper is deadly-serious. Some of the kids even start in on 
their trays while still in line at the milk dispenser. Now Coyle bites in. Wayne has made 
his entree into a sandwich and lowers and bites. Keith Freer's eyes are half closed as his 
jaw muscles bulge and slacken. Some of the players' inclined heads are hard to see over 
the height of their food. Struck and Schacht, side by side, bite in sync and chew. The 



only one at the table not eating like a refugee is Trevor Axford, who as a small child back 
in Short Beach CT once fell off his bike onto his head and received a tiny lesion-type 
brain injury after which all food everywhere tastes horrible to him. His clearest 
explanation of the way food tastes to him is that it tastes the way vomit smells. He's 
discouraged from speaking at meals and holds his nose while he eats and eats with the 
neutral joyless expression of somebody dispensing fuel into his car. Hal Incandenza 
dismantles the stelliform-mold shape E.T.A. mashed potatoes come in, mixing baby- 
boileds in with the mashed. Petropolis Kahn and Eliot Kornspan eat with such horrible 
P.O.W.ish gusto that nobody else will sit with them — they're by themselves at a small 
table behind Schacht and Struck, utensils glittering amid a kind of fine mist or spray. Jim 
Troeltsch keeps holding a clear tumbler of milk up to the ceiling's full-spectrum lights 
and swirling the milk around in the light, looking at it. Pemulis chews with his mouth 
open, producing moist noises, a habit so family-of-origin-ingrained no amount of peer 
pressure can break him of it. 

Eventually The Darkness clears his throat to speak. In the showers he'd gotten up to 
the middle of an Xmas story about one of his parents' epic rows. His parents had met 
and fallen in love in a Country/Western bar in Partridge KS — just outside Liberal KS on 
the Oklahoma border — met and fallen in star-crossed love in a bar playing this popular 
Kansas C/W-bar-game where they put their bare forearms together and laid a lit 
cigarette in the little valley between the two forearms' flesh and kept it there till one of 
them finally jerked their arm away and reeled away holding their arm. Mr. and Mrs. 
Stice each discovered somebody else that wouldn't jerk away and reel away, Stice 
explained. Their forearms were still to this day covered with little white slugs of burn- 
scar. They'd toppled like pines for each other from the git-go, Stice explained. They'd 
been divorced and remarried four or five times, depending on how you defined certain 
jurisprudential precepts. When they were on good domestic terms they stayed in their 
bedroom for days of squeaking springs with the door locked except for brief sallies out 
for Beefeater gin and Chinese take-out in little white cardboard pails with wire handles, 
with the Stice children wandering ghostlike through the clapboard house in sagging 
diapers or woolen underwear subsisting on potato chips out of econobags bigger than 
most of them were, the Stice kids. The kids did somewhat physically better during 
periods of nuptial strife, when a stony-faced Mr. Stice slammed the kitchen door and 
went off daily to sell crop insurance while Mrs. Stice — whom both Mr. Stice and The 
Darkness called 'The Bride' — while The Bride spent all day and evening cooking 
intricate multicourse meals she'd feed bits of to The Brood (Stice refers to both himself 
and his six siblings as 'The Brood') and then keep warm in quietly rattling-lidded pots 
and then hurl at the kitchen walls when Mr. Stice came home smelling of gin and of 
cigarette-brands and toilet-eau not The Bride's own. Ortho Stice loves his folks to 
distraction, but not blindly, and every holiday home to Partridge KS he memorizes 
highlights of their connubial battles so he can regale the E.T.A. upperclass-men with 
them, mostly at meals, after the initial forkwork and gasping have died down and 
people have returned to sufficient levels of blood-sugar and awareness of their 
surroundings to be regaled. Some of them listen, drifting in and out. Troeltsch and 
Pemulis are arguing about whether E.T.A.'s kitchen staff has started trying to slip them 



powdered milk on the sly. Freer and Wayne are still hunched and chewing, very intent. 
Hal's making some sort of structure out of his food. Struck keeps both elbows on the 
table at all times and utensils in his clenched fists like a parody of a man eating. Pemulis 
always listens to Stice's tales, often repeating little phrases, shaking his head in 
admiration. 

'I'm just going to go up and refuse to eat one more thing with a utensil that's gone 
down the disposal.' Schacht is holding up a fork with crazy tines. 'Just look at it. Who 
could eat with something like that.' 

'The old man is a son of a bitch that is cool under fire, in terms of The Bride,' Stice 
says, leaning in to bite and chew. The tendency at E.T.A. is to take the entree and unless 
it's a wet entree to take wheat bread and make it a sandwich, for the extra carbs. It's 
like Pemulis can't really taste his food unless he mashes it against his palate. The 
Academy's wheat bread is bicycled in by guys in Birkenstock sandals from Bread & Circus 
Quality Provisions in Cambridge, because it's got to be not only sugarless but low in 
glutens, which Tavis and Schtitt believe promote torpor and excess mucus. Axford, who 
lost to Tall Paul Shaw in straight sets and if he loses to him again tomorrow goes down 
to #5-A, stares stonily into space, his motions less like somebody eating than like 
somebody miming eating. Hal's made an intricate fortification-structure of his food, 
complete with turrets and archer-slits, and even though he's not much eating or 
drinking his six cranberry juices he keeps swallowing a lot, studying his structure. As the 
eating slows down at the best table the more observant of them give Hal and Axford 
tiny sideways looks, the players' different CPUs humming through Decision Trees on 
whether a still-publicly-undiscussed but much-rumored showdown with Dr. Tavis and 
the O.N.A.N.T.A. urology guy, plus now this loss to Shaw and near-loss to Ortho Stice, 
might not have shaken Inc and Axhandle along some psychic competitive fault-line, 
different guys with different rankings calculating the permuted advantages to 
themselves of Hal and Axford having a deeply distracted and anxious week. Though 
Michael Pemulis, the other rumored O.N.A.N.T.A. urine-scannee, ignores Axford's 
expression and Hal's excessive swallowing altogether, though possibly studiously 
ignoring them, staring meditatively at the squeegees 259 taken down off the wall and 
leaning against the unlit fireplace, fingers steepled before his lips, hearing out Troeltsch, 
who blows his nose with one hand and rattles his tumbler of half-drunk milk on the 
tabletop with the other. 

Pemulis shakes his head very seriously at Troeltsch. 'Not a chance, brother.' 

'I'm telling you man this milk is powdered.' Troeltsch peering down into the tumbler, 
probing the milk's surface with a thick finger. 'Me I can tell from powdered. I have 
growing-up domestic confirmed traumas around powdered. The day Mother announced 
milk was too heavy to keep lugging back from the store and switched to powdered, with 
Father's OK. Father knuckling under like Roosevelt at Yalta. My big sister ran away from 
home, and the rest of us were traumatized around it, this switch to powdered, which is 
unmistakable if you know what to look for.' 

Freer makes a snoring noise. 

'And do I ever know what to look for, to verify.' Troeltsch is hoarse, and one of these 
people who speaks to more than one person at once by looking from one person to one 



person to one person; he's not a born public speaker. 'Namely your telltale residues 
along the sides of the glass, when swished.' W/ great flourished swishings of the milk. 

'Except Troeltsch you can turn around and see them fucking loading the bags into the 
dispenser every twenty minutes. Bags of milk. That say MILK on them, the bags. Liquid, 
sloshy, hard to handle. It's milk.' 

'You see bags, you see the word MILK. They're counting on the packaging. Image 
management. Sensory management.' Responding to Pemulis but looking at Struck. 'Part 
of some larger overall kertwang. Possible punishment for the Eschaton thing.' Eyes 
going briefly to Hal. 'Covert vitamins possibly next. Let's not even mention saltpeter. Put 
aside deductions from bags a second. I'm sticking to facts. Fact: this is verifiably 
powdered milk.' 

'You're saying they mix powdered milk and then try and pour it into milk-bags, all to 
allay?' 

Schacht clears his mouth and swallows mightily. 'Tavis can't even regrout tile in the 
locker room without calling a Community Meeting or appointing a committee. The 
Regrouting Committee's been dragging along since May. Suddenly they're pulling secret 
0300 milk-switches ? It doesn't ring true, Jim.' 

'And Troeltsch has a cold, he said,' Freer observes, indicating the little bottle of 
Seldane next to Troeltsch's squeezing-ball, by his plate. 'You can't even taste, Troeltsch, 
if you got a real cold.' 

'Trevor should have the cold, Axhandle, no?' Schacht says, tapping carminative 
capsules onto his palm from his own amber bottle. 

With supper they can choose milk or else cranberry juice, that most carbcaloric of 
juices, which froths redly in its own clear dispenser by the salad bar. The milk dispenser 
stands alone against the west wall, a big huge 24-liter three-bagger, the milk inserted in 
ovaloid mammarial bags into its refrigerated cabinet of brushed steel, with three 
receptacles for tumblers and three levers for controlled dispensing. There's two levers 
for skim and one for supposedly high-lecithin chocolate skim, which every new E.T.A. 
tries exactly once and discovers tastes like skim with a brown crayon melted into it. 
There's a sign in a kitchen-staffer's crude black block caps taped to the dispenser's 
facade that says MILK IS FILLING; DRINK WHAT YOU TAKE. The sign used to say MILK IS 
FILLING, DRINK WHAT YOU TAKE until the comma was semicolonized by the insertion of 
a blue dot by a fairly obvious person. 260 The line for seconds on entrees now stretches 
out past the milk dispenser. The best thing about satiation and slowing down on the 
eating is leaning back and feeling autolysis start in on what you ate and tending to your 
teeth while you gaze around the airy room at crowds and clumps of kids, observing 
behaviors and pathologies with a clear and sated head. The littler kids running in tight 
circles trying to follow the shadow of the ceiling fan. Girls laughing crumpled against 
their seatmates' shoulders. People protecting their plates. The blurred sexuality and 
indecisive postures of puberty. Two marginal male 16's have their heads directly in the 
bowls in the salad bar, and some of the surrounding females are commenting. Different 
kids are illustrating points with different gestures. John Wayne and Keith Freer stroll 
purposefully through the serpentine crowd and up to the front of the Seconds line and 
insert themselves in front of a little boy who's tearing at a held bagel with great violent 



movements of head and neck. The 18-A's get free buttinskis: R.H.I, literal P., at E.T.A. Jim 
Struck spears one of the cherry tomatoes out of Hal's salad bowl with a savage fork- 
gesture; Hal makes no comment. 

Troeltsch has run his thick finger around the inside of the tumbler and is holding the 
digit out at different guys around the table. 'Note a certain bluish cast to it. Traces and 
remains. Suspicious foam. Minute grains of not quite altogether dissolved particulate 
powdered stuff. Powdered always leaves its telltale signs.' 

'Your fucking head is a minute grain, Troeltsch.' 

'Put that finger away.' 

'Tryna eat here.' 

'Paranoia,' Pemulis says, scooping up stray peas with the flat of his knife. 

'Base tuition of 21,700 scooters, not counting,' Troeltsch says, moving the finger back 
and forth in the air — the stuff drying on the finger does not, admittedly, exactly look 
appetite-whetting — 'and yet let's note how the Lung's not up in spite of rampant 
weather and Achilles'-complaints, and today's lunch a total deja vu of yesterday's lunch, 
and the bread and bagels they've started getting us Day-Old with the yellow stickers on 
the bags, and there's dinette sets in the tunnels and acoustic tiles in the halls and lawn- 
mowers in the kitchen and tripods in the grass and squeegees on the wall and Stice's 
bed moves around, and there's a ball machine in the girls' lockers, Longley reports, that 
for this kind of tuition none of this stuff the staff can get around to cleaning up bef—' 

Stice's head has jerked up, a trace of mashed potato on his nose. 'Who says my bed 
moves? How's it you know anything about any beds moving?' 

But it's true. The Husky VI tripod of Mario's near-fatal encounter with the U.S.S. 
Millicent Kent was only the beginning. Starting with the mysterious and continuing fall 
of acoustic ceiling-tiles from their places in the subdorms' drop ceilings, inanimate 
objects have either been moved into or just out of nowhere appearing in wildly 
inappropriate places around E.T.A. for the past couple months in a steadily accelerating 
and troubling cycle. Last week a grounds-crew lawnmower sitting clean and silent and 
somehow menacing in the middle of the dawn kitchen gave Mrs. Clarke the fantods and 
resulted in Eggplant Parmesan for two suppers in a row, which sent shock waves. 
Yesterday A.M. there'd been a cannonesque ball machine — no small feat to move 
around anywhere or get through doors — in the Females' Sauna, which machine some 
of the upperclass girls had found and screamed at when they went in for the dawn 
saunas that help alleviate some vague female-type problem that none of the guys quite 
fathom. And two black girls on the breakfast crew reportedly found a set of squeegees 
on the dining hall's north wall, several meters up and hung crossed in a kind of saltire, 
placed there by parties unknown. F. D. V. Harde's A.M. groundsmen reportedly took the 
things down, and now they're leaning by the fireplace. The inappropriate found objects 
have had a tektitic and sinister aspect: none of the cheery odor of regular pranksterism; 
they're not funny. To varying degrees they've given everyone the fantods. Mrs. Clarke 
had taken the morning off again, was why the repeat-lunch. Stice's eyes are back on his 
plate, which is nearly clean. Unmentioned is the fact that Schacht and Tall Paul Shaw at 
lunch went over the whole part of the north wall the black girls said they found the 
squeegees on and could find neither nails nor holes from nails, as in no visible means of 



attachment. The whole thing's been studiously not talked about, adding to everybody's 
discomfort at Troeltsch's hoarse complaints about tuition, which vary in specifics but are 
otherwise routine. 

'And then now the ultimate dietary cluster-fuck: attempted powdered milk.' 

'Trying to foist it you're saying.' 

'I'm saying and look at us and what do we do?' 

'Fake a cold and stay in bed playing sportscaster with the TP, in protest?' says Pemulis. 

Troeltsch uses the bottle of Seldane to point for emphasis. 'We don't want to hear 
about it. We look the other way with our heads in the sand.' 

'Sounds fucking painful.' 

'Go find some fucking synonyms for beat.' 

Slice swallows hugely: 'Never open your eyes underground: my old man's dictum.' 

'And so we distract ourselves,' Troeltsch says; 'we yuck it up.' 

Pemulis makes a k-sound. 'Here's the real question: how dumb is Troeltsch?' 

'Troeltsch's so dumb he thinks a manila folder's a Filipino contortionist.' 

'Troeltsch, who's buried in Grant's Tomb?' 

Kyle Coyle says surely they've all heard the one about what do Canadian girls put 
behind their ears to attract boys. John Wayne gives him not a look. Wayne's peering 
inside his own tumbler, where there does seem to be some sort of residue. There are 
fragments of lettuce in his eyelashes. Ortho Stice's cheeks are ballooned with food, his 
eyes on his own salad's remains, expression abstract and furrowed. A terrible kind of 
community energy in the whole dining hall, a kind of anxious sound-carpet under the 
surf of voices and the tinkle of flatware, and The Darkness is at some vague center of 
this energy, somehow, you can feel. Neither Wayne nor Hal's been approachable all fall, 
on-court. Kids at other tables say low-toned things to their seatmates, and then the 
seatmate looks covertly over at Stice's table. Forehead purply crumpled. Slice stares 
hard at his salad and tries to block input from his phenomenal peripheral vision. Two 
14's are contending over toast. Petropolis Kahn is preparing to catapult a chickpea at 
somebody. Jim Struck points out Bridgette Boone and the U.S.S. Millicent Kent returning 
for what Struck counts as Fourths, and Stice blocks the sight out. The sad pretty sunset 
out over the hilltops of Newton cannot be seen because the room's big windows face 
east, out over the hillside and the Enfield Marine complex that the Academy has bathed 
in shadow, so E.M.'s porch lights are already on, and tall cubist bits of the old metropolis 
beyond that, east, with shadows encroaching. The afternoon just past was a glory, 
scrubbed and cool and windless, cloud-free, the sun a disk, the sky a dome, soaked in 
light, even the northern horizons bell-clear against a faint green-yellow cast. Schacht has 
about eight amber bottles of various medicines for his Crohn's Disease, and a whole 
ritual of administration. A couple of the black girls who work kitchen and custodial day- 
shifts can be seen against the shadowy tree-line, making their way down the steep 
hillside's unauthorized path back down to the halfway-house thing for wretched people 
who come up here to work short-time. The girls' bright cheap jackets are vivid in the 
shadow and trees' tangle. The girls are having to hold hands against the grade, walking 
sideways and digging heavily in at each step. The black girl Clenette Hal had read fear in 
as she left C.T.'s office with his litter now has a bulging backpack on her back, as in 



bulging maybe with dumpster-pilferage, 261 her arms strung way out between the other 
black girl Didi and the trees she grabs and digging in sideways with each step, the 
hesitancy of steep dark slopes, rooty and shot through with briers. 

A girl with bangs rises and tings her tumbler with a spoon to make an announcement; 
nobody pays any attention. 

Now Kahn's by custom allowed to come over and sit with them at the best table, post- 
prandia lly. 

Wayne and Stice both shiver at the same time as the overhead lighting suddenly 
becomes the big room's primary light. 

There's a brief and sort of ignorant discussion on why girls who hit backhands one- 
handed seem prone to having different-sized breasts. Hal recalls his brother's late-in- 
college thing of seeing if he could take a girl out somewhere public and then meet and 
have covert sex with a whole different girl while still out with the first girl. This was after 
the girl Orin had been wildly in love with and Himself had compulsively used in films had 
been disfigured. Orin kept a record of Subjects that was sort of a cross between a chart 
and a journal. He used to come home and leave it out just pleading to be read. This was 
back when his brother Orin needed only to have sexual intercourse with them instead of 
getting them to fall so terribly in love with him they'd never be able to want anyone 
else. He'd taken obscure massage and psych courses and read tantric books whose 
illustrations seemed about as sexy to Hal as Twister. 

Coyle says 'Their ankles'; everybody ignores him. Wayne's already left the table. 

Little 14-C Bernard Makulic, two tables over from the milk dispenser and 
constitutionally delicate and not long for E.T.A., throws up in a silky tan cataract onto 
the floor by his chair, and there is the shriek of the feet of other chairs being scooted in 
a star pattern away from the table, and the protracted vowels of repulsed children. 

Struck, Pemulis, Schacht and Freer have all had sexual intercourse. Coyle's a probable, 
but reticent. Axford has trouble even publicly showering, much less submitting nude to 
a female's inspection. Hal is maybe the one male E.T.A. for whom lifetime virginity is a 
conscious goal. He sort of feels like O.'s having enough acrobatic coitus for all three of 
them. Freer even has a like souvenir-colposcope bolted to the inside of his locker door 
where a pin-up'd have been in days of yore, and Pemulis and Struck have allegedly 
patronized the Combat Zone after the fiscally pressed city'd buckled and rehung the 
Combat Zone's red lights, east of the Common. But Jim Troeltsch and sex: no way. And 
with Wayne and Stice the question seems somehow beside the point. Hal's mouth feels 
like it's overflowing with spit. He should by all rights have lost to Stice today, and he 
knows it. Stice was in physical control of the third set. Stice choked it away only because 
he didn't believe he could beat Hal yet, deep down, since Hal's competitive explosion. 
But the crisis of faith that cost Stice the match had concerned a different Hal, Hal can 
tell. It's now a whole new Hal, a Hal who does not get high, or hide, a Hal who in 29 days 
is going to hand his own personal urine over to authority figures with a wide smile and 
exemplary posture and not a secretive thought in his head. No one except Pemulis and 
Axford know it's a whole new and chemical-free Hal who should by all rights have lost to 
a 16-year-old out there in public on what ended up a gorgeous NNE autumn day. 

Wayne had gotten up and bussed his tray in the middle of the jejune breast thing. 



Ortho ('The Darkness') Stice is still staring into his salad. If you could open Stice's head 
you'd see a wheel inside another wheel, gears and cogs being widgeted into place. Stice 
has a secret suspicion about a secret that has more to do with the actual table than with 
the people at the table. A lot of the guys interpret his intense distraction as Stice's still 
being in the magic can't-miss Zone from this P.M.'S match. 

'The idea being that Nuck girls can only attract guys by being really easy to X, is the 
joke,' Coyle says into the noise. 

Then there's a brief rippling lull in the whole dining hall as little Evan Ingersoll emerges 
from the Entree Line's end on crutches, his cast new and sailor-hat-white, unsigned, 
prorector Tony Nwangi behind him with his hatchet-face stony, carrying the kid's tray 
for him. The hall's unease is almost visible, a corona around Ingersoll and the ruptured 
patellar tendon that'll cost him at least six months of competitive development. Penn, 
whose femoral fracture'll cost him a year, isn't even back yet from St. E.'s orthopedic. 
But at least Ingersoll's back. Hal gets up to go over, Troeltsch rising to accompany him 
after a long look at Trevor Axford, Ingersoll's B.B. of record, who's sitting in his chair 
with his eyes shut tight, unable to make any sort of conciliatory gesture. A match-sore 
Hal not limping but stiff-legged and shoulders slightly rolling as he and Troeltsch move 
serpentine around tables, steering way clear of the custodian and dull-steel bucket on 
rollers and the mop spreading and diluting Makulic's chyme out in a thinning circle that 
clears three tables, which Hal and Troeltsch avoid with practiced curves around tables 
whose layout they all know well, Hal to say Hey and How's the Limb, Troeltsch to say 
Hey and be basically relieved he's away from a discussion of females as sexual objects. 
Troeltsch's never come close to even dating anybody. Some guys here never do. It's the 
same at all the academies, this asexual contingent. Some junior players don't have the 
emotional juice left over after tennis to face what dating requires. Bold nerveless guys 
on the court who go slack and pale at the thought of approaching a female in any social 
context. Certain things not only can't be taught but can be retarded by other stuff that 
can be taught. The whole Tavis/Schtitt program here is supposedly a progression toward 
self-forgetting; some find the whole girl-issue thing brings them face to face with 
something in themselves they need to believe they've left far behind in order to hang in 
and develop. Troeltsch, Shaw, Axford: any sort of sexual tension makes them feel like 
they need more oxygen than is available right then. A couple of the girls at E.T.A. are 
kind of slutty, and some of the more aggressive Freer-type guys can break some of the 
girls down and get them to have sex — there's nothing if not time and proximity here. 
But E.T.A. is mostly a comparatively unsexual place, maybe almost surprisingly so, 
considering the constant roar and gurgle here of adolescent glands, the emphasis on 
physicality, the fears of mediocrity, the back-and-forth struggles with ego, the loneliness 
and close proximity. There's scattered homosexuality, much of it emotional and 
unconsummated. Keith Freer's pet theory is that the bulk of E.T.A. females are nascent 
lesbians who don't know it yet. That like any serious female athletes they're basically 
vigorously male inside, and so Sapphic-tending. The ones that get to the W.T.A. 262 
Show'll probably be the only ones who find out that they are, he believes — dykes that 
is. The rest will marry and spend a lifetime by the club pool wondering why the hair on 
their husbands' backs makes them shudder. E.g. the U.S.S. Millicent Kent, sixteen and 



phenomenal on the incline bench-press, with breasts like artillery and a butt like two 
bulldogs in a bag (Stice's term, which caught on), already looks like a Penal Matron, 
Freer likes to observe. And no one likes the fact that Carol Spodek's carried and prized 
the same single large-grip Donnay stick for going on five straight years. 

Ortho Stice of southwest Kansas looks briefly up at Hal and Troeltsch's departure 
before returning his attention to a certain cherry tomato perched somehow halfway up 
the shallow incline of his salad bowl. It's possible that the cherry tomato is attached 
halfway up the incline by an adhesive bit of yogurt dressing rather than just sitting there 
defying gravity on its own. Stice doesn't use a finger to move the tomato and check this. 
He's using only his concentrated will. He's trying to will the cherry tomato to roll of its 
own objectile power down the incline and into the bowl's center. He stares at the cherry 
tomato with enormous concentration, chewing his tri-level skinless-chicken-fillet 
sandwich. The chewing makes overlapping plates of muscle all the way up one side of 
his face and crew-cut scalp bulge and roll. He's trying to flex some kind of psychic 
muscle he's not sure he even has. The crew cut lends his head an anvil-like aspect. 
Complete concentration makes his round red fleshy face look crumpled. Stice is one of 
those athletes whose body you know is an unearned divine gift because its conjunction 
with his face is so incongruous. He resembles a poorly spliced photo, some superhuman 
cardboard persona with a hole for your human face. A beautiful sports body, lithe and 
tapered and sleekly muscled, smooth — like a Polycleitos body, Hermes or Theseus 
before his trials — on whose graceful neck sits the face of a ravaged Winston Churchill, 
broad and slab-featured, swart, fleshy, large-pored, with a mottled forehead under the 
crew cut's V-shaped hairline, and eye-pouches, and jowls that hang and whenever he 
moves suddenly or lithely make a sort of meaty staccato sound like a wet dog shaking 
itself dry. Tony Nwangi is saying something acerbic to Hal, who looks like he's kneeling 
penitent before Ingersoll, everyone at the surrounding tables inclined very subtly away 
from Hal. Troeltsch is signing Ingersoll's cast as he speaks into his fist. Off the court. 
Ortho Slice's flattop crew cut and penchant for cuff-rolled bluejeans and button-down 
short-sleeves with a checkered pattern are strictly from hick. The facial scrunching that 
attends concentration adds crevices and seams and an uneven flush to the bulldog face. 
His cheeks are ballooned with food as he stares at the perched cherry tomato, trying to 
respect this object with all his might. Summoning the sort of coercive reverence he'd felt 
this P.M. as several balls' sudden anomalous swerves against wind and their own 
vectors half convinced Stice they'd become sensitive to his inner will, at crucial times. 
He'd mishit one cross-court volley and seen the thing head for an area wide even of the 
doubles sideline and then curve like a drenched spitter back to land just inside the 
singles corner, and this at a time when the grounds' pines behind Hal Incandenza were 
breeze-leaning in the exact opposite direction. Hal had given Stice a little bit of a look on 
that one. Stice couldn't finally tell whether Hal noticed anything amiss in the mysterious 
curves and downdrafts that seemed to favor The Darkness alone; Hal had played with 
the wide-eyed but unfocused look of a tennis player right on the verge of falling apart 
out there, and yet strangely affectless, as if deep inside some well of his own private 
troubles; and Stice wills himself again not to wonder what had passed with the 
Headmaster and the O.N.A.N.T.A. urologist, whose lab-equipped van's unscheduled 



appearance in the E.T.A. parking lot yesterday afternoon had caused a tsunami of panic 
just before supper, especially since Pemulis and his supply of lab-ready Visine bottles 
were nowhere to be found. 

Even among the small circle who know Hal gets secretly high, it doesn't make much 
sense that Hal's misery'd be Tavis- or urine-related, since Pemulis has never seemed 
blither than today; and if anyone were going to get the boot, chemically or otherwise, it 
was not going to be the E.T.A. administration's relative and second-best boy. 

Hal and his brother Mario both know that the skim milk at E.T.A. has been pre-mixed 
powdered milk since Charles Tavis assumed the helm four years back and told Mrs. 
Clarke he wanted the kids' animal-fat intake halved in a month by any and all means. 
The kitchen's graveyard shift power-mixes it in enormous steel bowls and then strains 
out the foam and pours the milk into real-milk milk-dispenser bags for a kind of placebo 
effect; it's mostly just the concept of powdered milk that gags people. 

Struck has traded his shiny clean plate for the absent Incandenza's fortification- 
structured plate of uneaten fillets, low-gluten bread, corn-bread, baby boileds, a pea- 
chickpea-based olla, half a fresh squash, mashed potatoes packed in a stelliform gelatin 
mold, and a shallow bowl of dessert-tsimmes featuring mostly it seemed like plums. Hal 
is still down on one knee by Ingersoll's chair, his elbows on his knee, listening across 
Ingersoll and a blindfolded Idris Arslanian to Tony Nwangi. Keith Freer remarks blandly 
on how Hal seems like he's feeling sort of punk this evening, checking Stice for a 
reaction. Struck utters truisms about wasting food and global hunger through a full 
mouth. Struck is wearing a Sox cap to the side so the bill shadows half his face. The 
bread is unkind to his braces. Freer is wearing the leather vest with no shirt under, 
which is what he favors after weights have pumped his torso full of air. Stice had had a 
traumatic psychic experience at fourteen when he'd set the weight on the pull-down 
station too high, and Dr. Dolores Rusk has authorized his exemption from all but very 
basic weights, pending resolution of his fear of weights. The joke around E.T.A. is that 
Stice, who's surely Show-bound after graduation, has no fear of heights, but does fear 
weights. Keith Freer, though kind of a second-rank junior player, does look beautiful in 
his calfskin vest — his face and body match. Troeltsch wants a sportscasting career, but 
Freer is the E.T.A. with looks InterLace would favor. Freer's from inland Maryland, 
originally, his family's riches nouveaux, a family Amway business that hit big in the B.S. 
'90s with his now-deceased father's invention of a Pet-Rockish novelty that was 
ubiquitous in stockings for two straight pre-millennial Xmases — the so-called Phoneless 
Cord. Stice dimly recalls his old man getting a Phoneless Cord in his stocking, 
ostentatiously packaged, on Ortho's first recallable Xmas, back in Partridge KS, the old 
man cocking an eyebrow and The Bride laughing and slapping her big knee. Nobody now 
much even gets the remembered gag, though, so few things needing cords anymore. 
But Freer's old man had invested his windfall shrewdly. 


1 MAY Y.D.A.U. OUTCROPPING NORTHWEST OF TUCSON AZ 



U.S.A. 


'My own father,' Steeply said. Steeply again faced outward, one hip out and a hand on 
that hip. The scratch on his triceps was now ugly and puffed. Also, an area of Steeply's 
left finger was whiter than the skin around it. The removal of a university ring, or more 
probably a wedding band. It seemed curious to Marathe that Steeply would undergo 
electrolysis but not take trouble to fix his finger's annular pallor. 

Steeply said 'My own father, sometime around midlife. We watched him get 
consumed with a sort of entertainment. It wasn't pretty. I was never sure how it started 
or what it was about.' 

'You are now imparting a personal anecdote of you,' Marathe stated. 

Steeply did not shrug. He was pretending to study something particular out on the 
floor of the desert. 'But nothing like this sort of Entertainment — a plain old television 
program.' 

'Television of broadcasting and — how did one express it? — the passivity.' 

'Yes. Broadcast television. The program in question was called "M*A*S*H." The title 
was an acronym, not a command. As a boy I can recall some confusion on this point.' 

'I am knowing of the U.S.A. historical broadcast television comedy program 
"M*A*S*H,"' Marathe stated. 

'The fucking thing ran forever, it seemed. The program that would not die. B.S. 70s 
and '80s before it finally died, mercifully. Set in a military hospital during the U.N.'s 
action on Korea.' 

Marathe remained without expression. 'Police Action.' 

Many small birds of the mountain of the outcropping had begun to whistle and twitter 
somewhere off above and behind them. Also maybe the tentative rattle of some 
serpent. Marathe pretended to search for the watch in his pocket. 

Steeply said 'Now, nothing prima facie exceptional about getting attached to a show. 
God knows I was attached to my share of shows. That's all it started as. An attachment 
or habit. Thursday nights at 2100h. "Nine O'clock Eastern, Eight O'clock Central and 
Mountain." They used to broadcast this, to alert you to when to watch, or if you were 
going to tape it.' Marathe watched the big man shrug from behind. 'So the show was 
important to him. So, fine. OK. So he took pleasure in the program. God knows the guy 
was entitled — he'd worked like a dog his whole life. So OK, so at the start he scheduled 
his Thursday around the show, to an extent. It was hard to pinpoint anything wrong or 
consumptive. He was, yes, always home from work by 2050 on Thursdays. And he 
always had his supper watching the program. It seemed almost cute. Mummykins used 
to tease him, think it was adorable.' 

'Cuteness in fathers, this is rare.' There was no way Marathe was going to touch the 
evident U.S.A. childhood expression Mummykins. 

'My old man worked for a heating-oil distributorship. Home heating-oil. Have your 



files got this? A tidbit for M. Fortier: U.S.O.U.S.'s Steeply, H.H.: late father a heating-oil- 
delivery dispatcher. Cheery Oil, Troy, New York.' 

'State of New York, U.S.A., prior to Reconfiguration.' 

Hugh Steeply turned around but not all the way, scratching absently at his wens. 'But 
then: syndication. "M*A*S*H." The show was incredibly popular, and after a few years 
of Thursday nights it started also to run daily, during the day, or late at night, 
sometimes, in what I remember all too well was called syndication , where local stations 
bought old episodes and chopped them up and loaded them with ads, and ran them. 
And this, note, was while all-new episodes of the show were still appearing on 
Thursdays at 2100. I think this was the start.' 

'The cuteness, it was over.' 

'My old man started to find the syndicated reruns extremely important to him, too. As 
in like not to be missed.' 

'Even though he had viewed and enjoyed them before, these reruns.' 

'The fucking show ran on two different local stations in the Capital District. Albany and 
environs. For a while, this one station even had a "M*A*S*H" hour, two of them, back 
to back, every night, from 2300. Plus another half an hour in the early P.M., for the 
unemployed or something.' 

Marathe said 'Virtually a bombardment of this U.S.A. broadcast comedy program.' 

After a brief pause of attention to some wens of the face. Steeply said 'He started to 
keep a small television down at work. Down at the distributorship.' 

'For the broadcast of afternoon.' 

Steeply appeared to Marathe uncalculating in his statements. 'Broadcast TVs, toward 
the end they made some of them really small. Kind of a pathetic try at keeping cable 
down. Some as small as like wrist-size. You'd be too young to remember.' 

'I remember well a pre-digital television.' Marathe, if Steeply's anecdote of himself 
had a political point or communique, Marathe could not yet determine this. 

Steeply moved his foul Belgian cigarette into his right hand to flick it out into the space 
below. 'It progressed very slowly. The gradual immersion. The withdrawal from life. I 
remember guys from his bowling league calling, that he'd quit. Our Mummykins found 
out he'd dropped out of Knights of Columbus. Thursdays the jokes and cuteness stopped 
— him all hunched in front of the set, barely even eating from his tray. And every night 
late at night, for the nightly hour, the old man too wide awake, and hunched over 
weirdly, head out, as if pulled toward the screen.' 

'I too have seen this posture of viewing,' Marathe grimly said, recalling his second- 
oldest of brothers and the Canadiens of the N.L. of H. 

'And he got anxious, ugly, if something made him miss even one. Even one episode. 
And he'd get ugly if you pointed out he'd already seen most of them about seven times 
before. Mummykins began to have to lie to get them out of engagements that would 
have infringed. Neither of them talked about it. I don't remember any of us trying to 
name the thing out loud — this dark shift in his attachment to the program "M*A*S*H." 

l 

'The organism of family simply shifted to accommodate.' 

'Which it wasn't even all that consuming an entertainment,' Steeply said. He sounded 



to Marathe uncalculated and somewhat younger. 'I mean it was OK. But it was 
broadcast TV. Broad comedy and canned laughter.' 

'I am remembering well this rerunning program, do not worry about me,' said 
Marathe. 

'It was at some point during this gradual shift the notebook first appeared. He began 
writing notes in a notebook as he viewed. But only when viewing "M*A*S*H." And he 
never left the notebook lying around where you could get any kind of look at it. He 
wasn't openly secretive about it; you couldn't even point to that and say something was 
wrong. The "M*A*S*H" notebook just never seemed to be lying around.' 

With the hand that was not below the blanket still gripping the Sterling UL35, Marathe 
was holding his thumb and forefinger up against the smear of red which was just over 
the Mountains of Rincon and craning his neck to see his shadow behind them on the 
hillside. 

Steeply changed the hip which was out, in his standing, to his other hip. 'As a child, 
this is when it became impossible to ignore the odor of obsession about the whole 
thing. The secrecy about the notebook, and the secrecy about the secrecy. The 
scrupulous recording of tiny details, in careful order, for purposes you could just tell 
were both urgent and furtive.' 

'This is unbalance,' Marathe concurred. 'This attaching of excessive importance.' 

'Jesus, you don't know the half of it.' 

'And for you also,' Marathe said, 'excessive unbalance. For your father progresses 
downhill in this obsessing, but always so slowly that always you could question yourself, 
whether you were maybe yourself the one out of balance, attaching too much 
importance to any one thing — a notebook, a posture. Crazy making.' 

'And the toll on Mummykins.' 

Marathe had turned the chair to a slight angle to be able to see his shadow, which 
appeared blunt and deformed by the topography of the steep hillside above the 
outcropping, and in general pathetic and small. There would be no titanic or menacing 
Brockengespenstphanom with the sunrise of dawn. Marathe said 'The whole organism 
of family becomes out of balance, questioning its perceptions.' 

'The old man — then he started developing this habit of quoting little lines and scenes 
from "M*A*S*H," to illustrate some idea, make some point in conversation. At the 
beginning of the habit he seemed casual about it, as if the little bits and scenes simply 
occurred to him. But this changed, but slowly. Plus I remember he started seeking out 
feature films that also featured the television program's actors.' 

Marathe pretended to sniff. 

'Then at some point it was as if he was no longer able to converse or communicate on 
any topic without bringing it back to the program. The topic. Without some system of 
references to the program.' Steeply gave small indications of paying attention to the 
small squeaks as Marathe turned his chair slightly this way and that way, achieving 
different angles of sight on his small shadow. Steeply exhaled air through the nostrils 
with a forceful sound. 'Though it wasn't as though he was wholly uncritical of it.' 

It sometimes from somewhere blue occurred to Marathe that he did not dislike this 
Steeply, though like or respect would be too far in going, to say. 



'It was not that type of obsession with it, it, you are saying.' 

'It was gradual and slow. He started at some point I remember to refer to the kitchen 
as the Mess Tent and his den as the Marsh or Swamp. These were fictional locations on 
the show. He began renting films with even crowd-extra or cameo appearances by the 
program's actors. He bought what was then called a Betamixer, 263 a kind of early 
magnetic-video recorder. He began a practice of magnetically recording each week's 29 
broadcasts and reruns. He stored the tapes, organizing them in baroque systems of 
cross-reference that had nothing discernible to do with dates of recording. I remember 
Mummykins didn't say anything when he moved his bedding and began to sleep at night 
in the easy chair in his den, the Swamp. Or pretend to. Sleep.' 

'But you had your suspicions of not real sleeping.' 

'It was gradually obvious he was viewing his magnetic recordings of the program 
"M*A*S*H" throughout the night, probably over and over again, using a crude white 
plastic earplug to hide the noise, scribbling feverishly in his notebook.' 

In contrast with the violence and transpergant puncturing of the sunset, the dawn sun 
seemed slowly exhaled from the more rounded salience of the Mountains of Rincon, its 
heat a moister heat and the light the vague red of a type of fond sentiment; and 
U.S.O.U.S.'s Steeply's standing shadow was cast back over the outcropping toward 
Marathe behind him, close enough that Marathe might reach his arm out and touch the 
shadow. 

'You can tell I don't have a good recall of the exact progression of the thing,' Steeply 
said. 

'The gradual.' 

'I do know that Mummykins, I remember one day in the garbage can out behind the 
house she found a number of letters addressed to a "M*A*S*H" character named — 
this I fucking-A sure remember — Major Burns. She found them.' 

Marathe did not allow himself the chuckle. 'While searching inside the can of waste in 
the back. For evidence of unbalance.' 

Steeply waved Marathe off. He was incapable of amused. 'She didn't search through 
the garbage. Mumkinsky had too much class. She probably forgot and threw away the 
day's Troy Record before she'd clipped her food-coupons. She was an inveterate 
coupon-clipper.' 

'This was prior to the days of North American laws of recircling 264 of newspapers.' 

Steeply did not wave off or give a glare. He wore the look of concentrating. This 
character — this I remember, too well — was portrayed by I remember the actor Maury 
Linville, a plain old employee of 20th Century Fox.' 

'Which later upstarted the fourth network of the Large Four.' 

Steeply's luridly run makeup from the heat of the day before had now over the night 
hardened into a configuration of almost horror. 'But the letters, the letters were 
addressed to Major Burns. Not to Maury Linville. And not c/o Fox Studios or wherever, 
but addressed to an involved military address, with a Seoul routing code.' 

'In the South Korea of history.' 

'The letters were hostile, savage, and lavishly descriptive. He'd come to think the 
show's character Major Burns embodied some type of cataclysmic, Armageddon-type 



theme that was slowly assembling itself on the program and progressively being hinted 
at and emerging in the gradual succession of seasons of this "M*A*S*H."' Steeply felt at 
his lip. 'I remember Mummykins never mentioned the letters. From the garbage. She 
just left them around where my kid sister and I would see them.' 

'You are not meaning your sister was a goat.' 

Steeply was not provokable into some different emotion, however, Marathe observed. 
'Younger sister. But my old man, the progression of the program from fun to obsession 
— crucial distinctions had collapsed, I think, now. Between the fictional Burns and this 
Linville who portrayed Burns.' 

Marathe raised a brow for concurring: 'This is signifying a severe loss of balance.' 

'I remember something about he seemed to believe the name of the character Burns 
also somehow hiddenly signified the English verb for the promise of the consuming fire 
of apocalypse.' 

Marathe looked puzzled or else squinted because of a rising sun. 'But he threw the 
letters into the waste receptacle, you stated, instead of the Snail's Mail.' 

'He'd already started missing whole weeks at a time from work. He'd been at Cheery 
for decades. He was only a few years from retirement.' 

Marathe was looking at his lap's blanket's brightening colors of plaid. 

'Mo Cheery and the old man — they'd bowled together, they were in Knights of 
Columbus together. Missing all the weeks of work made things awkward. Mo didn't 
want to can the old man. He wanted the old man to see somebody.' 

'A professional person.' 

'A lot of this I wasn't even there for. The "M*A*S*H" thing. I was at college by the time 
the really crucial distinctions had collapsed.' 

'Studying the multiple cultures.' 

'My kid sister had to keep me abreast of developments during the term. Good old Mo 
Cheery'd come by the house, view magnetic tapes of the show with the old man a while, 
listen to the old man's theories and views, then on his way out he'd collar Mummykins 
and take her out into the garage and talk to her very quietly about the fact that the old 
man was in a high-angle psychic nose-dive and needed with all due regard in his opinion 
to see somebody in the direst fucking way. My kid sister said the Mumkinsky always 
acted like she had no idea what Mo Cheery was talking about.' 

Marathe smoothed at his blanket. 

'Mumkinsky being a type of pet family name,' Steeply said, looking a little bit of 
embarrassed. 

Marathe nodded. 

'I'm trying to reconstruct this out of memory,' Steeply said. 'The old man is by this time 
pretty much unable to converse about anything except the television program 
"M*A*S*H." The theory of the theme of this Burns-slash-Burning apocalypse now sort of 
spreads out to become huge and complex theories about wide-ranging and deeply 
hidden themes having to do with death and time, on the show. Like evidence of some 
sort of coded communication to certain viewers about an end to our familiar type of 
world-time and the advent of a whole different order of world-time.' 

'Your mother continues to play-act at normalcy, however.' 



'I'm trying to reconstruct things that weren't even clear at the time,' Steeply said, his 
wet and then dried makeup now grotesque in his concentration in the sunrise, like a 
mask of a mentally ill clown. He said 'One theory involved the fact, which the old man 
found extremely significant, that the historical Korean Police Action of the U.N. lasted 
only roughly two-odd years, but that "M*A*S*H" itself was by then into something like 
its seventh year of new episodes. Some characters of the program were getting gray 
hair, receding hair, face-lifts. The old man was convinced this signified intentional 
themes. According to my kid sister, who bore the brunt of time spent with him, 
watching,' Steeply said, 'the old man's theories were almost inconceivably complex and 
wide-ranging. As the years of new seasons went on and some actors retired and 
characters were replaced by other characters, the old man generated baroquoco 
theories about what it was that had quote-underline '"really" happened to the absent 
characters. Where they'd gone, where they were, what it all augured. Then the next 
thing was one or two of the letters started to appear, canceled and returned, stamped 
as undeliverable, or to addresses that were not just nonexistent but absurd.' 

'Unbalanced letters were no longer being discarded as waste, but now mailed.' 

'And Mummykins was uncomplaining throughout. It was enough to break your heart. 
She was a rock. She did, granted, begin taking prescription anti-anxiety medication.' 

Land of the freely brave: Marathe did not say this aloud. He looked at his pocket's 
watch and was trying to remember a time when he had ever with Steeply had to 
consider the tact of departing. 

Steeply, at this time, gave the impression somehow of having several cigarettes going 
at one time. 'Somewhere along late in the progression the old man let it be known he 
was working on a secret book that revised and explicated much of the world's military, 
medical, philosophical and religious history by analogies to certain subtle and complex 
thematic codes in "M*A*S*H." 1 Steeply would stand on one foot to raise the other foot 
to look at a shoe's inflicted damage, all the time smoking. 'Even when he went in to 
work, there were problems. Heating-oil customers who called for deliveries or 
information or whatever began to complain that the old man kept trying to engage 
them in bizarre theoretical discussions of the thematics of "M*A*S*H."' 

'Because it is necessary that I leave soon, a central point must be soon emerging,' 
Marathe worked in as gracefully as possible. 

Steeply seemed not to hear this other man. He seemed not only uncalculated and self- 
enmeshed; his demeanor itself seemed more young, that of some young person. This 
unless this was part of some performance beyond Marathe, Marathe knew he must 
consider. 

'Then the double blow, 1 Steeply said. 'In B.S. 1983. My memory's clear on this. The 
Mumkinsky opened an alarming letter from attorneys for CBS and 20th Century Fox. 
Certain letters had been apparently rerouted by do-goodnik military postal clerks to Fox. 
The old man'd been trying to correspond with different past and present "M*A*S*H" 
personas in letters the family never saw get mailed but whose content, the attorneys 
said, raised quote grave concern and could quote constitute grounds for strenuous legal 
action. 1 Steeply raised the foot to look, his face in pain. He said, 'Then the program's 
final episode ran. Late autumn of B.S. 1983.1 was on an ROTC marching-band trip to 



Fort Ticonderoga. My kid sister, who'd by this time left home herself, and who could 
blame the kid, she reported that the Mumkinsky was talking very casually and 
uncomplainingly of the old man's now refusing to leave his den. 1 

'This, the final enclosing isolation of obsession.' 

Steeply looked over his shoulder on one awkward foot to look slightly at Marathe. 'As 
in even to go to the bathroom, now, the not leaving.' 

'Your mother's prescriptions prevented some episodes of great anxiety, I think.' 

'He'd gotten a special A.C.D.C. cable hook-up that brought in extra syndication. When 
reruns weren't running, the video-magnetic tapes ran constantly. He was haggard and 
spectral and his easy chair was all but unrecognizable. Cheery Oil was keeping him on 
the books until he could get his thirty years in at age sixty. My kid sister and I started 
reluctantly discussing intervening on Mummykins to intervene on the old man and force 
him to see somebody.' 

'Yourselves, you could not reach him.' 

'He died just before his birthday. He died in his easy chair, set at full Recline, watching 
an episode in which Alda's Hawkeye can't stop sleepwalking and fears he's going out of 
his fucking mind until a professional military therapist reassures him, I remember.' 

'Me, I too have seen this episode rerunning, in my childhood.' 

'All I can recall of it is the army professional telling Alda not to worry, that if he was 
truly crazy he'd sleep like a newborn, as did the notorious Burns-slash-Linville.' 

'The program's character of Burns slept exceptionally well, I remember.' 

'His secret book's manuscript filled scores of notebooks. This is what the notebooks 
turned out to be. One closet in the den had to be forced open. All these notebooks 
tumbled out. The whole thing was written in a kind of medical-slash-military-looking 
code, though, indecipherable — Sis and her first husband and I spent some time trying 
to decode them. After his death in the chair.' 

'His unbalance of temptation cost him life. An otherwise harmless U.S.A. broadcast 
television program took his life, because of the consuming obsession. This is your 
anecdote.' 

'No. It was a transmural infarction. Blew out a whole ventricle. His whole family had a 
history: the heart. The pathologist said it was amazing he'd lasted this long.' 

Marathe shrugged. 'The obsessed frequently endure.' 

Steeply shook the head. 'It must have been hell on the poor old Mumkinsky.' 

'She never complained, however.' 

Already the sun was up and pulsing. Light ran over everything in a sickening yellow 
way like gravy. All birds and living animals had been silenced, stunned already by heat, 
and the site's bright loaders had not yet been started in movement. All was calm. All 
was bright. Steeply's shadow on the shelf was squat and blunt, already shorter than the 
living figure of Steeply himself, who was leaning outward to try to find a spot far below 
to litter with a crumpled Belgian packing with one prayed no more finally to smoke. 

Marathe took his watch from out of the windbreaker's pocket. 

Steeply shrugged. 'I think you're right, that it's part of both the horror and the pull. 
When I'm east and thinking of Flatto's lab and I sort of look up and find myself tempted.' 

'About the Entertainment of now.' 



'And I kind of half-picture Hank Hoyne in the old man's old recliner, hunched and 
scribbling feverishly.' 

'In military coding.' 

'His eyes, they got like that, too, the old man's, like Hoyne's. Periodically.' 

Heat began to shimmer, as well, off the lionhide floor of a desert. The mesquite and 
cactus wobbled, and Tucson AZ resumed once more the appearance of the mirage, as it 
had appeared when Marathe had first arrived and found his shadow so entrancing in its 
size and reach. The sun of A.M. had no radial knives of light. It appeared brutal and 
businesslike and harmful to look upon. Marathe allowed himself a few diverting seconds 
of watching the Mountains of the Rincons' widening shadows melt slowly backward into 
the base of the Mountains of the Rincons. Steeply hawked and spat, still holding the last 
crumpled pack of Flanderfumes. 

'My time is sharply finite to remain.' Marathe said this. Every change of his postures 
brought small squeaks of leather and metal. 'I would feel gratitude if you departed first.' 

Steeply figured Marathe wanted him to have no idea how he got up and down, in and 
out. To no real purpose; a personal point of pride. Steeply squatted for adjusting the 
straps of his high heels. His prostheses were still not quite aligned. He spoke with the 
faintly breathless quality of large men trying to bend: 

'Well. Remy, but I don't think Dick Willis's "empty of intent" quite does it. Captures it. 
The eye-factor. Hoyne, the Arab internist. The old man. Not for eyes like that.' 

'You would say it does not capture these eyes' expression.' 

Looking up while squatting, this made Steeply's neck appear thick. He stared past 
Marathe, at the shale. He said 'The expressions seem more like — fuck, how to say it. 
Fuck,' Steeply said in concentration. 

'Petrified,' Marathe said. 'Ossified. Inanimate.' 

'No. Not inanimate. More like the opposite. More as if... stuck in some way.' 

Marathe's neck itself was stiff from so much time looking out and down from a height. 
'What is it this wishes here to mean? Glued?' 

Steeply was doing something to a toenail's cracked polish. 'Stuck. Fixed. Held. 
Trapped. As in trapped in some sort of middle. Between two things. Pulled apart in 
different directions.' 

Marathe's eyes searched the sky, which this was already too light blue for his 
pleasure, filmed with a sort of eggy plura of heat. 'Meaning between different cravings 
of great intensity, this.' 

'Not even cravings so much. Emptier than that. As if he were stuck wondering. As if 
there was something he'd forgotten.' 

'Misplaced. Lost.' 

'Misplaced.' 

'Lost.' 

'Misplaced.' 

'As you wish.'