YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT 


Tuesday, 3 November, Enfield Tennis Academy: A.M. drills, shower, eat, class, lab, 
class, class, eat, prescriptive-grammar exam, lab/class, conditioning run, P.M. drills, play 
challenge match, play challenge match, upper-body circuits in weight room, sauna, 
shower, slump to locker-room floor w/ other players. 

'...to even realize what they're sitting there feeling is unhappiness? Or to even feel it in 
the first place?' 

1640h.: the Comm.-Ad. Bldg.'s males' locker room is full of clean upper-classmen in 
towels after P.M. matches, the players' hair wet-combed and shining with Barbicide. 
Pemulis uses the comb's big-toothed end to get that wide-furrowed look that kids from 
Allston favor. Hal's own hair tends to look wet-combed even when it's dry. 

'So,' Jim Troeltsch says, looking around. 'So what do you think?' 

Pemulis lowers himself to the floor by the sinks, leaning up against the cabinet where 
they keep all the disinfectants. He has this way of looking warily to either side of him 
before he says anything. 'Was there like a central point to all that, Troeltsch?' 

'The exam was talking about the syntax of Tolstoy's sentence, not about real unhappy 
families,' Hal says quietly. 

John Wayne, as do most Canadians, lifts one leg slightly to fart, like the fart was some 
kind of task, standing at his locker, waiting for his feet to get dry enough to put on socks. 

There is a silence. Showerheads dribble on tile. Steam hangs. Distant ghastly sounds 
from T. Schacht over in one of the stalls off the showers. Everyone stares into the 
middle distance, stunned with fatigue. Michael Pemulis, who can stand about ten 
seconds of communal silence tops, clear his throat deeply and sends a loogie up and 
back into the sink behind him. The plate mirrors caught part of its quivering flight, Hal 
sees. Hal closes his eyes. 

'Tired,' someone exhales. 

Ortho Stice and John ('N.R.') Wayne seem less fatigued than detached; they have the 
really top player's way of shutting the whole neural net down for brief periods, staring 
at the space they took up, hooded in silence, removed, for a moment, from the 
connectedness of all events. 

'Right then,' Troeltsch says. 'Pop quiz. Pop test-question. Most crucial difference, for 
Leith tomorrow, between your historical broadcast TV set and a cartridge-capable TP.' 

Disney R. Leith teaches E.T.A.'s History of Entertainment I and II as well as certain high- 
level esoteric Optics things you needed Permission of Inst, to get into. 

'The Cathodeluminescent Panel. No cathode gun. No phosphenic screen. Two to the 
screen's diagonal width in cm. lines of resolution, total.' 

'You mean a high-def. viewer in general, or a specifically TP-component viewer?' 

'No analogs,' Struck says. 

'No snow, no faint weird like ghostly double next to UHF images, no vertical roll when 



planes fly over.' 

'Analogs v. digitals.' 

'You referring to broadcast as in network versus a TP, or network-plus-cable versus a 
TP?' 

'Did cable TV use analogs? What, like pre-fiber phones?' 

'It's the digitals. Leith has that word he uses for the shift from analogs to digitals. That 
word he uses about eleven times an hour.' 

'What did pre-fiber phones use, exactly?' 

'The old tin-can-and-string principle.' "Seminal." He keeps saying it. "Seminal, 
seminal." 

'The biggest advance in home communications since the phone he says.' 

'In home entertainment since the TV itself.' 

'Leith might say the Write-Capable CD, for entertainment.' 

'He's hard to pin down if you get him on entertainment qua entertainment.' 

'The Diz'll say use your own judgment,' Pemulis says. 'Axford took it last year. He 
wants an argument made. He'll skewer you if you treat it like there's an obvious 
answer.' 

'Plus there's the InterLace de-digitizer instead of an antenna, with a TP,' Jim Struck 
says, squeezing at something behind his ear. Graham ('Yard-guard') Rader is checking his 
underarm for more hair. Freer and Shaw might be asleep. 

Stice has pulled his towel down slightly and is fingering the deep red abdominal stripe 
a jock's waistband leaves. 'Boys, I ever become president, the first thing to go's elastic.' 

Troeltsch pretends to shuffle cards. 'Next item. Next like flash-card. Define acutance. 
Anybody?' 

'A measure of resolution directly proportional to the resolved ratio of a given pulse's 
digital code,' Hal says. 

'The Incster has the last word once again,' says Struck. Which invites a chorus: 

'The Halster.' 

'Halorama.' 

'Halation.' 

'Halation,' Rader says. 'A halo-shaped exposure-pattern around light sources seen on 
chemical film at low speed.' 

'That most angelic of distortions.' 

Struck says 'We'll be like vying for the seats all around Inc tomorrow.' Hal shuts his 
eyes: he can see the page of text right there, all highlighted, all yellowed up. 

'He can scan the page, rotate it, fold the corner down and clean under his nails with it, 
all mentally.' 

'Leave him alone,' Pemulis says. 

Freer opens his eyes. 'Do a dictionary-page for us, man, Inc.' 

Stice says 'Leave him be.' 

It's all only half-nasty. Hal is placid about getting his balls smacked around; they all 
are. He does his share of chops-busting. Some of the littler kids who take their showers 
after the upperclassmen are hanging around listening. Hal sits on the floor, quiescent, 
chin on his chest, just thinking it's nice finally to breathe and get enough air. 



The temperature had fallen with the sun. Marathe listened to the cooler evening wind 
roll across the incline and desert floor. Marathe could sense or feel many million floral 
pores begin slowly to open, hopeful of dew. The American Steeply produced small 
exhalations between his teeth as he examined his scratch of the arm. Only one or two 
remaining tips of the digitate spikes of the radial blades of the sun found crevices 
between the Tortolitas' peaks and probed at the roof of the sky. There were the slight 
and dry locationless rustlings of small living things that wish to come out at night, 
emerging. The sky was violet. 


Everyone in the locker room's got a towel around his waist like a kilt. Everyone except 
Stice has a white E.T.A. towel; Stice uses his own sort of trademark towels, black ones. 
After a silence Stice shoots some air out through his nose. Jim Struck picks liberally at his 
face and neck. There are one or two sighs. Peter Beak and Evan Ingersoll and Kent Blott, 
twelve, eleven, ten, are up sitting on the blond-wood benches that run in front of the 
lockers' rows, sitting there in towels, elbows on knees, not taking part. So is Zoltan 
Csikzentmihalyi, who's sixteen but speaks very little English. Idris Arslanian, new this 
year, ethnically vague, fourteen, all feet and teeth, is a shadowy lurking presence just 
outside the locker-room door, poking the non-Caucasoid snout in occasionally and then 
withdrawing, terribly shy. Each E.T.A. player in 18-and-Unders has like four to six 14- 
and-Unders kids he's supposed to keep his more experienced wing over, look out for. 
The more the E.T.A. administration trusts you, the younger and more generally clueless 
the little kids in your charge. Charles Tavis instituted the practice and calls it the Big 
Buddy System in the literature he sends new kids' parents. So the parents can feel their 
kid's not getting lost in the institutional shuffle. Beak, Blott, and Arslanian are all in Hal's 
Big Buddy group for Y.D.A.U. He also in effect has Ingersoll, having traded Todd ('Postal- 
Weight') Possalthwaite to Axford off the books for Ingersoll, because Trevor Axford 
found he so despised the Ingersoll kid for some unanalyzable reason that he was 
struggling against a horrible compulsion to put Ingersoll's little fingers into the gap by 
the hinges of an open door and then very slowly close the door, and came to Hal almost 
in tears, Axford had. Though technically Ingersoll is still Axford's and Possalthwaite Hal's. 
Possalthwaite, the great lobber, has a weird young-old face and little wet lips that lapse 
into a sucking reflex under stress. In theory, a Big Buddy's somewhere between an R.A. 
and a prorector. He's there to answer questions, ease bumpy transitions, show ropes, 
act as liaison with Tony Nwangi and Tex Watson and the other prorectors specializing in 
little kids. Be somebody they can come to off the record. A shoulder to climb up on a 
footstool and cry on. If a 16-and-Under gets made a Big Buddy it's kind of an honor; it 
means they think you're going places. When there's no tournament or travel, etc.. Big 
Buddies get together with their quar-to-sextet in small-group private twice a week, in 
the interval between P.M. challenge matches and dinner, usually after saunas and 
showers and a few minutes of sitting slumped around the locker room sucking air. 
Sometimes Hal sits with his Little Buddies at dinner and eats with them. Not often. 



however. The savvier Big Buddies don't get too overly close with their L.B. ephebes, 
don't let them forget about the unbridgeable gaps of experience and ability and general 
status that separate ephebes from upperclassmen who've hung in and stuck it out at 
E.T.A. for years and years. Gives them more to look up to. The savvy Big Buddy doesn't 
rush in or tread heavy; he holds his own ground and lets the suppliants realize when 
they need his help and come to him. You have to know when to tread in and take an 
active hand and when to hang back and let the littler kids learn from the personal 
experience they'll have to learn from, inevitably, if they want to be able to hang. Every 
year, the biggest source of attrition, besides graduating 18s, is 13-15s who've had 
enough and just can't hang. This happens; the administration accepts it; not everyone's 
cut out for what's required of you here. Though C.T. makes his administrative assistant 
Lateral Alice Moore drive the prorectors bats trying to ferret out data on littler kids' 
psychic states, so he can forecast probable burnouts and attritive defections, so he'll 
know how many slots he and Admissions'll have to offer Incomings for the next term. 
Big Buddies are in a tricky position, requested to keep the prorectors generally informed 
about who among their charges seems shaky in terms of resolve, capacity for suffering 
and stress, physical punishment, homesickness, deep fatigue, but at the same time 
wanting to remain a trustworthy confidential shoulder and wing for their Little Buddies' 
most private and delicate issues. 

Though he, too, has to struggle with a strange urge to be cruel to Ingersoll, who 
reminds him of someone he dislikes but can't quite place, Hal on the whole rather likes 
being a Big B. He likes being there to come to, and likes delivering little unpretentious 
minilectures on tennis theory and E.T.A. pedagogy and tradition, and getting to be kind 
in a way that costs him nothing. Sometimes he finds out he believes something that he 
doesn't even know he believed until it exits his mouth in front of five anxious little hair¬ 
less plump trusting clueless faces. The twice-weekly (more like once-weekly, as things 
usually pan out) group interfaces with his quintet are unpleasant only after a particularly 
bad P.M. session on the courts, when he's tired and on edge and would far rather go off 
by himself and do secret stuff in underground ventilated private. 

Jim Troeltsch feels at his glands. John Wayne is of the sock-and-a-shoe, sock-and-a- 
shoe school. 

'Tired,' Ortho Slice again sighs. He pronounces it 'tard.' To a man, now, the 
upperclassmen are down slumped on the locker room's blue crush carpet, their legs 
straight out in front of them, toes pointing out at that distinctive morgue-angle, their 
backs up against the blue steel of the lockers, careful to avoid the six sharp little 
louvered antimildew vents at each locker's base. All of them look a bit silly naked 
because of their tennis tans: legs and arms the deep sienna of a quality catcher's mitt, 
from the summer, the tan just now this late starting to fade, but feet and ankles of 
toadbelly-white, the white of the grave, with chests and shoulders and upper arms more 
like off-white — the players can sit shirtless in the stands at tournaments when they're 
not playing and get at least a bit of thoracic sun. The faces are the worst, maybe, most 
red and shiny, some still deep-peeling from three straight weeks of outdoor 
tournaments in August-September. Besides Hal, who's atavistically dark-complected 
anyway, the ones here with the least bad piebald coloring are the players who can 



tolerate spraying themselves down with Lemon Pledge before outdoor play. It turns out 
Lemon Pledge, when it's applied in pre-play stasis and allowed to dry to a thin crust, is a 
phenomenal sunscreen, UV-rating like 40+, and the only stuff anywhere that can survive 
a three-set sweat. No one knows what jr. player at what academy found this out about 
Pledge, years back, or how: rather bizarre discovery-circumstances are envisioned. The 
smell of sweat-wet Pledge out on the court makes some of the more delicately 
constituted kids sick, though. Others feel sunscreen of any kind to be unconscionably 
pussified, like white visors or on-court sunglasses. So most of the E.T.A. upperclassmen 
have these vivid shoe-and-shirt tans that give them the classic look of bodies hastily 
assembled from different bodies' parts, especially when you throw in the heavily 
muscled legs and usually shallow chests and the two arms of different sizes. 

'Tard tard tard, 1 Stice says. 

Group empathy is expressed via sighs, further slumping, small spastic gestures of 
exhaustion, the soft clanks of skulls' backs against the lockers' thin steel. 

'My bones are ringing the way sometimes people say their ears are ringing. I'm so 
tired.' 

'I'm waiting til the last possible second to even breathe. I'm not expanding the cage till 
driven by necessity of air.' 

'So tired it's out of tired's word-range,' Pemulis says. 'Tired just doesn't do it.' 

'Exhausted, shot, depleted,' says Jim Struck, grinding at his closed eye with the heel of 
his hand. 'Cashed. Totalled.' 

'Look.' Pemulis pointing at Struck. 'It's trying to think.' 

'A moving thing to see.' 

'Beat. Worn the heck out.' 

'Worn the fuck-all out is more like.' 

'Wrung dry. Whacked. Tuckered out. More dead than alive.' 

'None even come close, the words.' 

'Word-inflation,' Stice says, rubbing at his crewcut so his forehead wrinkles and clears. 
'Bigger and better. Good greater greatest totally great. Hyperbolic and hyperbolicker. 
Like grade-inflation.' 

'Should be so lucky,' says Struck, who's been on academic probation since fifteen. 

Stice is from a part of southwest Kansas that might as well be Oklahoma. He makes 
the companies that give him clothes and gear give him all black clothes and gear, and his 
E.T.A. cognomen is 'The Darkness.' 

Hal raises his eyebrows at Stice and smiles. 'Hyperbolicker?' 

'My daddy as a boy, he'd have said "tuckered out'"ll do just fine.' 

'Whereas here we are sitting here needing whole new words and terms.' 

'Phrases and clauses and models and structures,' Troeltsch says, referring again to a 
prescriptive exam everyone but Hal wishes now to forget. 'We need an inflation- 
generative grammar.' 

Keith Freer makes a motion as if taking his unit out of his towel and holding it out at 
Troeltsch: 'Generate this.' 

'Need a whole new syntax for fatigue on days like this,' Struck says. 'E.T.A.'s best 
minds on the problem. Whole thesauruses digested, analyzed.' Makes a sarcastic 



motion. 'Hal?' 

One semion that still works fine is holding your fist up and cranking at it with the other 
hand so the finger you're giving somebody goes up like a drawbridge. Though of course 
Hal's mocking himself at the same time. Everybody agrees it speaks volumes. Idris 
Arslanian's shoes and incisors appear briefly in the doorway's steam, then withdraw. 
Everyone's reflection is sort of cubist in the walls' shiny tiling. The name handed down 
paternally from an Umbrian five generations past and now much diluted by N.E. Yankee, 
a great-grandmother with Pima-tribe Indian S.W. blood, and Canadian cross-breeding, 
Hal is the only extant Incandenza who looks in any way ethnic. His late father had been 
as a young man darkly tall, high flat Pima-tribe cheekbones and very black hair 
Brylcreemed back so tight there'd been a kind of enforced widow's peak. Himself had 
looked ethnic, but he isn't extant. Hal is sleek, sort of radiantly dark, almost otterish, 
only slightly tall, eyes blue but darkly so, and unburnable even w/o sunscreen, his 
untanned feet the color of weak tea, his nose ever unpeeling but slightly shiny. His 
sleekness isn't oily so much as moist, milky; Hal worries secretly that he looks half¬ 
feminine. His parents' pregnancies must have been all-out chromosomatic war: Hal's 
eldest brother Orin had got the Moms's Anglo-Nordo-Canadian phenotype, the deep- 
socketed and lighter-blue eyes, the faultless posture and incredible flexibility (Orin was 
the only male anybody at E.T.A.'d ever heard of who could do a fully splayed 
cheerleader-type split), the rounder and more protrusive zygomatics. 

Hal's next-oldest brother Mario doesn't seem to resemble much of anyone they know. 

On most of the nontravel days that he doesn't Big Buddy with his charges, Hal will wait 
till most everybody's busy in the sauna and shower and stow his sticks in his locker and 
stroll casually down the cement steps into E.T.A.'s system of tunnels and chambers. He 
has some way he can casually drift off and have quite a while go by before anyone even 
notices his absence. He'll often stroll casually back into the locker room just as people 
are slumped on the floor in towels discussing fatigue, carrying his gear bag and 
substantially altered in mood, and go in when most of the littler kids are in there peeling 
Pledge-husks off their limbs and taking their turn showering, and shower, using one of 
the kids' shampoo out of a bottle shaped like a cartoon character, then hike the head 
back and apply Visine in a Schacht-free stall, gargle and brush and floss and dress, 
usually not even needing to comb his hair. He carries Visine AC, mint-flavored floss, and 
a traveller's toothbrush in a pocket of his Dunlop gear bag. Ted Schacht, big into oral 
hygiene, regards Hal's bag's floss and brush as an example to them all. 

'So tired it's like I'm almost high.' 

'But not pleasantly high,' Troeltsch says. 

'It'd be a pleasanter tiredness-high if I didn't have to wait till fucking 1900 to start all 
this studyin',' Stice says. 

'You'd think Schtitt could at least not turn up the juice the week before midterms.' 

'You'd think that the coaches and the teachers could try and get together on their 
scheduling.' 

'It'd be like a pleasant fatigue if I could just go up after dinner and hunker on down 
with the mind in neutral and watch something uncomplex.' 

'Not have to worry about prescriptive forms or acutance.' 



'Kick back.' 

'Watch something with chase scenes and lots of stuff blowing up all over the place.' 

'Relax, do bongs, kick back, look at lingerie catalogues, eat granola with a great big 
wooden spoon,' Struck says wistfully. 

'Get laid.' 

'Just get one night off to like R and R.' 

'Slip on the old environmental suit and listen to some atonal jazz.' 

'Have sex. Get laid.' 

'Bump uglies. Do the nasty. Haul ashes.' 

'Find me one of them Northeast Oklahoma drive-in burger-stand waitresses with the 
great big huge titties.' 

'Those enormous pink-white French-painting tits that sort of like tumble out.' 

'One of those wooden spoons so big you can barely get your mouth around it.' 

'Just one night to relax and indulge.' 

Pemulis belts out two quick verses of Johnny Mathis's 'Chances Are,' left over from the 
shower, then subsides to examine something on his left thigh. Shaw has a spit-bubble 
going, growing to such exceptional size for just spit that half the room watches until it 
finally goes at the same moment Pemulis breaks off. 

Evan Ingersoll says 'We get off Saturday for Interdependence Day Eve, though, the 
board said.' 

Several upperclass heads are cocked up at Ingersoll. Pemulis makes a bulge in his 
cheek with his tongue and moves it around. 

'Flubbaflubba': Stice makes his jowls fly around. 

'We get off classes is all. Drills and challenges go merrily on, deLint says,' Freer points 
out. 

'But no drills Sunday, before the Gala.' 

'But still matches.' 

Every jr. player presently in this room is ranked in the top 64 continentally, except 
Pemulis, Yardley and Blott. 

There'd be clear evidence that T. Schacht's still in one of the toilet stalls off the 
showers even if Hal couldn't see the tip of one of Schacht's enormous purple shower 
thongs under the door of the stall right by where the shower-area entryway cuts into his 
line of sight. Something humble, placid even, about inert feet under stall doors. The 
defecatory posture is an accepting posture, it occurs to him. Head down, elbows on 
knees, the fingers laced together between the knees. Some hunched timeless millennial 
type of waiting, almost religious. Luther's shoes on the floor beneath the chamber pot, 
placid, possibly made of wood, Luther's 16th-century shoes, awaiting epiphany. The 
mute quiescent suffering of generations of salesmen in the stalls of train-station Johns, 
heads down, fingers laced, shined shoes inert, awaiting the acid gush. Women's slippers, 
centurions' dusty sandals, dock-workers' hobnailed boots. Popes' slippers. All waiting, 
pointing straight ahead, slightly tapping. Huge shaggy-browed men in skins hunched just 
past the firelight's circle with wadded leaves in one hand, waiting. Schacht suffered from 
Crohn's Disease, 43 a bequest from his ulcerative-colitic dad, and had to take carminative 
medication with every meal, and took a lot of guff about his digestive troubles, and had 



developed of all things arthritic gout, too, somehow, because of the Crohn's Disease, 
which had settled in his right knee and caused him terrible pain on the court. 

Freer's and Tall Paul Shaw's racquets fall off the bench with a clatter, and Beak and 
Blott move fast to pick them up and stack them back on the bench. Beak one-handed 
because the other hand is keeping his towel fastened. 

'Because so that was let's see,' Struck says. 

Pemulis loves to sing around tile. 

Struck's hitting his palm with a finger for either emphasis or ordinal counting. 'Close to 
let's call it an hour run for the A-squads, an hour-fifteen drills, two matches back to 
back.' 

'I only played one,' Troeltsch injects. 'Had a measurable fever in the A.M., deLint said 
to throttle down today.' 

'Folks that went three sets only played one match, Spodek and Kent for an instance,' 
Stice says. 

'Funny how Troeltsch how his health always seems to rally when A.M. drills get out,' 
Freer says. 

'— like conservatively two hours for the matches. Conservatively. Then half an hour on 
the machines under fucking Loach's beady browns, sitting there with the clipboard. 
That's let's call it five hours of vigorous nonstop straight-out motion.' 

'Sustained and strenuous exertion.' 

'Schtitt's determinated this year we ain't singing no silly songs at Port Washington.' 

John Wayne hasn't said one word this whole time. The contents of his locker are neat 
and organized. He always buttons his shirt all the way up to the top button as if he were 
going to put on a tie, which he doesn't even own. IngersolPs also getting dressed out of 
his underclassman's small square locker. 

Stice says 'Except they seem to forget we're still in our puberty.' 

IngersolI is a kid seemingly wholly devoid of eyebrows, as far as Hal can see. 

'Speak for yourself. Darkness.' 

'I'm saying how stressing the pubertyizing skeleton like this, it's real short-sighted.' 
Stice's voice rises.' 'm I supposed to do when I'm twenty and in the Show playing 
nonstop and I'm skeletally stressed and injury-proned?' 

'Dark's right.' 

A curled bit of cloudy old Pledge-husk and a green thread from a strip of GauzeTex 
wrap are complexly entwined in the blue fibers of the carpet near Hal's left ankle, which 
ankle is faintly swollen and has a blue tinge. He keeps flexing the ankle whenever it 
occurs to him to. Struck and Troeltsch spar briefly with open hands, feinting and 
bobbing their heads, both still seated on the floor. Hal, Stice, Troeltsch, Struck, Rader, 
and Beak are all rhythmically squeezing tennis balls with their racquet-hands, as per 
Academy mandate. Struck's shoulders and neck have furious purple inflammations; Hal 
had also noticed a boil on the inside of Schacht's thigh, when Ted'd sat down. Hal's 
face's reflection just fits inside one of the wall-tiles opposite, and then if he moves his 
head slowly the face distends and comes back together with an optical twang in the 
next tile. That post-shower community feeling is dissipating. Even Evan Ingersoll looks 
quickly at his watch and clears his throat. Wayne and Shaw have dressed and left; Freer, 



a major Pledge-devotee, is at his hair in the mirror, Pemulis also rising now to get away 
from Freer's feet and legs. Freer's eyes have a protrusive wideness to them that the 
Axhandle says makes Freer always look like he's getting shocked or throttled. 

And time in the P.M. locker room seems of limitless depth; they've all been just here 
before, just like this, and will be again tomorrow. The light saddening outside, a grief felt 
in the bones, a sharpness to the edge of the lengthening shadows. 

'I'm thinking it's Tavis,' Freer says to them all in the mirror. 'Where there's excess work 
and suffering can fucking Tavis be far behind.' 

'No, it's Schtitt,' Hal says. 

'Schtitt was short a few wickets out of the old croquet set long before he got hold of 
us, men,' Pemulis says. 

'Peemster and Hal.' 

'Halation and Pemurama.' 

Freer purses his little lips and expels air like he's blowing out a match, blowing some 
tiny grooming-remnant off the big mirror's glass. 'Schtitt just does what he's told like a 
good Nazi.' 

'What the hail is that supposed to mean?' asks a Stice who's well known for asking 
Flow High Sir when Schtitt says Jump, now feeling at the carpet around him for 
something to throw at Freer. Ingersoll tosses Stice a woppsed-up towel, trying to be 
helpful, but Slice's eyes are on Freer's in the glass, and the towel hits him on the head 
and sits there, on his head. The room's emotions seem to be inverting themselves every 
couple seconds. There's half-cruel laughter at Stice as Hal struggles to his feet, rising in 
careful stages, putting most of his weight on the good ankle. Hal's towel falls off as he 
does his combination. Struck says something that's lost in the roar of a high-pressure 
toilet. 


The feminized American stood at a slight angle to Marathe upon the outcropping. Fie 
stared out at the dusk-shadow they were now inside, and as well the increasingly 
complicated twinkle of the U.S.A. city Tucson, seeming slackly transfixed. Steeply, in the 
way vistas too large for the eye to contain transfix persons in a kind of torpid spectation. 

Marathe seemed on the edge of sleep. 

Even the voice of Steeply had a different timbre inside the shadow. 'They say it's a 
great and maybe even timeless love. Rod Tine's for your Luria person.' 

Marathe grunted, shifting slightly in the chair. 

Steeply said 'The sort that gets sung about, the kind people die for and then get 
immortalized in song. You got your ballads, your operas. Tristan and Isolde. Lancelot and 
what's-her-name. Agamemnon and Helen, Dante and Beatrice.' 

Marathe's drowsy smile continued upward to become a wince. 'Narcissus and Echo. 
Kierkegaard and Regina. Kafka and that poor girl afraid to go to the postbox for the 
mail.' 

'Interesting choice of example here, the mailbox.' Steeply pretended to chuckle. 

Marathe came alert. Take off your wig and be shitting inside it, Hugh Steeply B.S.S. 
And the ignorance of you appalls me. Agamemnon had no relation with this queen. 



Menelaus was husband, him of Sparta. And you mean Paris. Helen and Paris. He of 
Troy. 1 

Steeply seemed amused in the idiotic way: 'Paris and Helen, the face that launched 
vessels. The horse: the gift which was not a gift. The anonymous gift brought to the 
door. The sack of Troy from inside.' 

Marathe rose slightly on his stumps in the chair, showing some emotions at this 
Steeply. 'I am seated here appalled at the naivete of history of your nation. Paris and 
Helen were the excuse of the war. All the Greek states in addition to the Sparta of 
Menelaus attacked Troy because Troy controlled the Dardanelles and charged the 
ruinous tolls for passage through, which the Greeks, who would like very dearly the easy 
sea passage for trade with the Oriental East, resented with fury. It was for commerce, 
this war. The one-quotes "love" one-does-not-quote of Paris for Helen merely was the 
excuse.' 

Steeply, genius of interviewing, sometimes affected more than usual idiocy with 
Marathe, which he knew baited Marathe. 'Everything reduces itself to politics for you 
guys. Wasn't that whole war just a song? Did that war even really take place, that 
anybody knows of?' 

'The point is that what launches vessels of war is the state and community and its 
interests,' Marathe said without heat, tiredly. 'You only wish to enjoy to pretend for 
yourself that the love of one woman could do this, launch so many vessels of alliance.' 

Steeply was stroking the perimeters of the mesquite-scratch, which made his shrug 
appear awkward. 'I don't think I'd be so sure. Those around Rod the God say the man 
would die twice for her. Say he wouldn't have to even think about it. Not just that he'd 
let the whole of O.N.A.N. come down, if it came to that. But'd die.' 

Marathe sniffed. 'Twice.' 

'Without even having to pause and think,' Steeply said, stroking at his lip's 
electrolysistic rash in a ruminative fashion. 'It's the reason most of us think he's still 
there, why he's still got President Gentle's ear. Divided loyalties are one thing. But if he 
does it for love — well then you've got a kind of tragic element that transcends the 
political, wouldn't you say?' Steeply smiled broadly down at Marathe. 

Marathe's own betrayal of A.F.R.: for medical care for the conditions of his wife; for 
(Steeply might imagine to think) love of a person, a woman. 'Tragic saying as if Rodney 
Tine of Nonspecificity were not responsible for choosing it, as the insane are not 
responsible,' said Marathe quietly. 

Steeply now was smiling even more broadly. 'It has a kind of tragic quality, timeless, 
musical, that how could Gentle resist?' 

Marathe's tone now became derisive despite his legendary sangfroid in matters of 
technical interviews: 'These sentiments from a person who allows them to place him in 
the field as an enormous girl with tits at the cock-eyed angle, now discoursing on tragic 
love.' 

Steeply, impassive and slackly ruminative, picked at the lipstick of the corner of his 
mouth with a littlest finger, removing some grain of grit, gazing out from their shelf of 
stone. 'But sure. The fanatically patriotic Wheelchair Assassins of southern Quebec 
scorn this type of interpersonal sentiment between people.' Looking now down at 



Marathe. 'No? Even though it's just this that has brought you Tine, yours for Luria to 
command, should it ever come to that?' 

Marathe had settled back on his bottom in the chair. 'Your U.S.A. word for fanatic, 
"fanatic," do they teach you it comes from the Latin for "temple"? It is meaning, literally, 
"worshipper at the temple." 

'Oh Jesus now here we go again,' Steeply said. 

'As, if you will give the permission, does this love you speak of, M. Tine's grand love. It 
means only the attachment. Tine is attached, fanatically. Our attachments are our 
temple, what we worship, no? What we give ourselves to, what we invest with faith.' 

Steeply made motions of weary familiarity. 'Herrrrrre we go.' 

Marathe ignored this. 'Are we not all of us fanatics? I say only what you of the U.S.A. 
only pretend you do not know. Attachments are of great seriousness. Choose your 
attachments carefully. Choose your temple of fanaticism with great care. What you wish 
to sing of as tragic love is an attachment not carefully chosen. Die for one person? This 
is a craziness. Persons change, leave, die, become ill. They leave, lie, go mad, have sick¬ 
ness, betray you, die. Your nation outlives you. A cause outlives you.' 

'How are your wife and kids doing, up there, by the way?' 

'You U.S.A.'s do not seem to believe you may each choose what to die for. Love of a 
woman, the sexual, it bends back in on the self, makes you narrow, maybe crazy. 
Choose with care. Love of your nation, your country and people, it enlarges the heart. 
Something bigger than the self.' 

Steeply laid a hand between his misdirected breasts: 'Ohh... Can -ada...' 

Marathe leaned again forward on his stumps. 'Make amusement all you wish. But 
choose with care. You are what you love. No? You are, completely and only, what you 
would die for without, as you say, the thinking twice. You, M. Hugh Steeply: you would 
die without thinking for what?' 

The A.F.R.'s extensive file on Steeply included mention of his recent divorce. Marathe 
already had informed Steeply of the existence of this file. He wondered how badly 
Steeply doubted what he reported, Marathe, or whether he assumed its truth simply. 
Though the persona of him changed, Steeply's car for all field assignments was this 
green sedan subsidized by a painful ad for aspirin upon its side — the file knew this 
stupidity — Marathe was sure the sedan with its aspirin advertisement was somewhere 
below them, unseen. The fanatically beloved car of M. Hugh Steeply. Steeply was 
watching or gazing at the darkness of the desert floor. He did not respond. His 
expression of boredom could be real or tactical, either of these. 

Marathe said, 'This, is it not the choice of the most supreme importance? Who 
teaches your U.S.A. children how to choose their temple? What to love enough not to 
think two times?' 

'This from a man who —' 

Marathe was willing that his voice not rise. 'For this choice determines all else. No? All 
other of our you say free choices follow from this: what is our temple. What is the 
temple, thus, for U.S.A.'s? What is it, when you fear that you must protect them from 
themselves, if wicked Quebecers conspire to bring the Entertainment into their warm 
homes?' 



Steeply's face had assumed the openly twisted sneering expression which he knew 
well Quebecers found repellent on Americans. 'But you assume it's always choice, 
conscious, decision. This isn't just a little naive, Remy? You sit down with your little 
accountant's ledger and soberly decide what to love? Always?' 

'The alternatives are —' 

'What if sometimes there is no choice about what to love? What if the temple comes 
to Mohammed? What if you just love? without deciding? You just do: you see her and in 
that instant are lost to sober account-keeping and cannot choose but to love?' 

Marathe's sniff held disdain. 'Then in such a case your temple is self and sentiment. 
Then in such an instance you are a fanatic of desire, a slave to your individual subjective 
narrow self's sentiments; a citizen of nothing. You become a citizen of nothing. You are 
by yourself and alone, kneeling to yourself.' 

A silence ensued this. 

Marathe shifted in his chair. 'In a case such as this you become the slave who believes 
he is free. The most pathetic of bondage. Not tragic. No songs. You believe you would 
die twice for another but in truth would die only for your alone self, its sentiment.' 

Another silence ensued. Steeply, who had made his early career with Unspecified 
Services conducting technical interviews, 44 used silent pauses as integral parts of his 
techniques of interface. Here it defused Marathe. Marathe felt the ironies of his 
position. One strap of Steeply's prostheses' brassiere had slipped into view below his 
shoulder, where it cut deeply into his flesh of the upper arm. The air smelled faintly of 
creosote, but much less strongly smelling than the ties of train tracks, which Marathe 
had smelled at close range. Steeply's back was broad and soft. Marathe eventually said: 

'You in such a case have nothing. You stand on nothing. Nothing of ground or rock 
beneath your feet. You fall; you blow here and there. How does one say: "tragically, 
unvoluntarily, lost." 

Another silence ensued. Steeply farted mildly. Marathe shrugged. The B.S.S. Field 
Operative Steeply may not have been truly sneering. The city Tucson's lume appeared a 
bleached and ghostly white in the unhumid air. Crepuscular animals rustled and perhaps 
scuttled. Dense and unbeautiful spider webs of the poisonous U.S.A. species of spider 
Black Widow were beneath the shelf and the incline's other outcroppings. And when the 
wind hit certain angles in the mountainside it moaned. Marathe thought of his victory 
over the train that had taken his legs. 45 He attempted in English to sing: 

' "Oh Say, Land of the Free." ' 

And they both could feel this queer dry night-desert chill descend with the moon's 
gibbous rise — a powdery wind down below making dust to shift and cactus needles 
whistle, the sky's stars adjusting to the color of low flame — but were themselves not 
yet chilled, even Steeply's sleeveless dress: he and Marathe stood and sat in the form¬ 
fitting astral spacesuit of warmth their own radiant heat produced. This is what happens 
in dry night climes, Marathe was learning. His dying wife had never once left 
southwestern Quebec. Les Assassins des Fauteuils Roulents' remote embryonic 
disseminatory Ops base down here in Southwest U.S.A. seemed to him like the surface 
of the moon: four corrugated Quonsets and kiln-baked earth and air that swam and 
shimmered like the area behind jet engines. Empty and dirty-windowed rooms. 



doorknobs hot to touch and hell-stench inside the empty rooms. 

Steeply was continuing saying nothing while he tamped down another of his long 
Belgian cigarettes. Marathe continued to hum the U.S.A. song, all over the map in terms 
of key. 


3 NOVEMBER Y.D.A.U. 


'Because none of them really meant any of it,' Hal tells Kent Blott. 'The end-of-the-day 
hatred of all the work is just part of the work. You think Schtitt and deLint don't know 
we're going to sit in there together after showers and bitch? It's all planned out. The 
bitchers and moaners in there are just doing what's expected.' 

'But I look at these guys that've been here six, seven years, eight years, still suffering, 
hurt, beat up, so tired, just like I feel tired and suffer, I feel this what, dread, this dread, I 
see seven or eight years of unhappiness every day and day after day of tiredness and 
stress and suffering stretching ahead, and for what, for a chance at a like a pro career 
that I'm starting to get this dready feeling a career in the Show means even more 
suffering, if I'm skeletally stressed from all the grueling here by the time I get there.' 

Blott's on his back on the shag carpet — all five of them are — stretched out splay- 
limbed with their heads up supported on double-width velourish throw-pillows on the 
floor of V.R.6, one of the three little Viewing Rooms on the second floor of the Comm.- 
Ad. Bldg., two flights up from the locker rooms and three from the main tunnel's mouth. 
The room's new cartridge-viewer is huge and almost painfully high-definition; it hangs 
flat on the north wall like a large painting; it runs off a refrigerated chip; the room's got 
no TP or phone-console; it's very specialized, just a player and viewer, and tapes; the 
cartridge-player sits on the second shelf of a small bookcase beneath the viewer; the 
other shelves and several other cases are full of match-cartridges, motivational and 
visualization cartridges — InterLace, Tatsuoka, Yushityu, SyberVision. The 300-track wire 
from the cartridge-player up to the lower-right corner of the wall-hung viewer is so thin 
it looks like a crack in the wall's white paint. Viewing Rooms are windowless and the air 
from the vent is stale. Though when the viewer's on it looks like the room has a window. 

Hal's put on an undemanding visualization-type cartridge, as he usually does for a Big 
Buddy group-interface when they're all tired. He's killed the volume, so you can't hear 
the reinforcing mantra, but the picture is bright and bell-clear. It's like the picture 
almost leaps out at you. A graying and somewhat ravaged-looking Stan Smith in 
anachronistic white is at a court's baseline hitting textbook forehands, over and over 
again, the same stroke, his back sort of osteoporotically hunched but his form 
immaculate, his footwork textbook and effortless — the frictionless pivot and back-set 
of weight, the anachronistic Wilson wood stick back and pointing straight to the fence 



behind him, the fluid transfer of weight to the front foot as the ball comes in, the 
contact at waist-level and just out front, the front leg's muscles bunching up as the back 
leg's settle, eyes glued to the yellow ball in the center of his strings' stencilled W — 
E.T.A. kids are conditioned to watch not just the ball but the ball's rotating seams, to 
read the spin coming in — the front knee dipping slightly down under bulging quads as 
the weight flows more forward, the back foot up almost en-pointe on the gleaming 
sneaker's unscuffed toe, the no-nonsense flourishless follow-through so the stick ends 
up just in front of his gaunt face — Smith's cheeks have hollowed as he's aged, his face 
has collapsed at the sides, his eyes seem to bulge from the cheekbones that protrude as 
he inhales after impact, he looks desiccated, aged in hot light, performing the same 
motions over and over, for decades, his other hand floating up gently to grasp the stick's 
throat out in front of the face so he's flowed back into the Ready Stance all over again. 
No wasted motion, egoless strokes, no flourishes or tics or excesses of wrist. Over and 
over, each forehand melting into the next, a loop, it's hypnotizing, it's supposed to be. 
The soundtrack says 'Don't Think Just See Don't Know Just Flow' over and over, if you 
turn it up. You're supposed to pretend it's you on the bell-clear screen with the fluid and 
egoless strokes. You're supposed to disappear into the loop and then carry that 
disappearance out with you, to play. The kids're lying there limp and splayed, supine, 
jaws slack, eyes wide and dim, a relaxed exhausted warmth — the flooring beneath the 
shag is gently heated. Peter Beak is asleep with his eyes open, a queer talent E.T.A. 
seems to instill in the younger ones. Orin had been able to sleep with his eyes open at 
the dinner table, too, at home. 

Hal's fingers, long and light brown and still slightly sticky from tincture of benzoin, 46 
are laced behind his upraised head on the pillow, cupping his own skull, watching Stan 
Smith, eyes heavy too. 'You feel as though you'll be going through the exact same sort of 
suffering at seventeen you suffer now, here, Kent?' 

Kent Blott has colored shoelaces on his sneakers with 'Mr.-Bouncety-Bounce- 
Program'-brand bow-biters, which Hal finds extraordinarily artless and young. 

Peter Beak snores softly, a small spit-bubble protruding and receding. 

'But Blott surely you've considered this: Why are they all still here, then, if it's so awful 
every day?' 

'Not every day,' Blott says. 'But pretty often it's awful.' 

'They're here because they want the Show when they get out,' Ingersoll sniffs and 
says. The Show meaning the A.T.P. Tour, travel and cash prizes and endorsements and 
appearance fees, match-highlights in video mags, action photos in glossy print-mags. 

'But they know and we know one very top junior in twenty even gets all the way to the 
Show. Much less survives there long. The rest slog around on the satellite tours or 
regional tours or get soft as club pros. Or become lawyers or academics like everyone 
else,' Hal says softly. 

'Then they stay and suffer to get a scholarship. A college ride. A white cardigan with a 
letter. Girl coeds keen on lettermen.' 

'Kent, except for Wayne and Pemulis not one guy in there needs any kind of 
scholarship. Pemulis'll get a full ride anywhere he wants, just on test-scores. Slice's 
aunts'll send him anywhere even if he doesn't want to play. And Wayne's headed for the 



Show, he'll never do more than a year in the O.N.A.N.C.A.A.'s.' Blott's father, a cutting- 
edge E.N.T. oncologist, flew all over the world removing tumors from wealthy mucous 
membranes; Blott has a trust fund. 'None of that's the point and you guys know it.' 

'They love the game, you're going to say.' 

Stan Smith has switched to backhands. 

'They sure must love something, Ingersoll, but how about for a second I say that's not 
Kent's point either. Kent's point's the misery in that room just now. K.B., I've taken part 
in essentially that same bitter bitchy kind of session hundreds of times with those same 
guys after bad P.M.s. In the showers, in the sauna, at dinner.' 

'Very much bitching also in the lavatories,' Arslanian says. 

Hal unsticks his hair from his fingers. Arslanian always has a queer faint hot-doggish 
smell about him. 'The point is it's ritualistic. The bitching and moaning. Even assuming 
they feel the way they say when they get together, the point is notice we were all sitting 
there all feeling the same way together.' 

'The point is togetherness?' 

'Shouldn't there be violas for this part, Hal, if this is the point?' 

'Ingersoll, I —' 

Beak's cold-weather adenoids wake him periodically, and he gurgles and his eyes roll 
up briefly before they level out and he settles back, seeming to stare. 

Hal creatively visualizes that Smith's velvety backhand is him slo-mo slapping Evan 
Ingersoll into the opposite wall. Ingersoll's parents founded the Rhode Island version of 
the service where you order groceries by TP and teenagers in fleets of station wagons 
bring them out to you, instead of supermarkets. 'What the point is is that we'd all just 
spent three hours playing challenges against each other in scrotum-tightening cold, 
assailing each other, trying to take away each other's spots on the squads. Trying to de¬ 
fend them against each other's assaults. The system's got inequality as an axiom. We 
know where we stand entirely in relation to one another. John Wayne's over me, and 
I'm over Struck and Shaw, who two years back were both over me but under Troeltsch 
and Schacht, and now are over Troeltsch who as of today is over Freer who's 
substantially over Schacht, who can't beat anyone in the room except Pemulis since his 
knee and Crohn's Disease got so much worse, and is barely hanging on in terms of 
ranking, and is showing incredible balls just hanging on. Freer beat me 4 and 2 in the 
quarters of the U.S. Clays two summers ago, and now he's on the B-squad and five slots 
below me, six slots if Troeltsch can still beat him when they play again after that illness- 
default.' 

'I am over Blott. I am over Ingersoll,' Idris Arslanian nods. 

'Well Blott's just ten, Idris. And you're under Chu, who's on an odd year and is under 
Possalthwaite. And Blott's under Beak and Ingersoll simply by virtue of age-division.' 

'I know just where I stand at all times,' muses Ingersoll. 

SyberVision edits its visualization sequences with a melt-filter so Stan Smith's follow- 
through loops seamlessly into his backswing for the exact same next stroke; the 
transitions are gauzy and dreamlike. Hal struggles to hike himself up onto his elbows: 

'We're all on each other's food chain. All of us. It's an individual sport. Welcome to the 
meaning of individual. We're each deeply alone here. It's what we all have in common. 



this aloneness.' 

'E Unibus Pluram,' Ingersoll muses. 

Hal looks from face to face. Ingersoll's face is completely devoid of eyebrows and is 
round and dustily freckled, not unlike a Mrs. Clarke pancake. 'So how can we also be 
together? How can we be friends? How can Ingersoll root for Arslanian in Idris's singles 
at the Port Washington thing when if Idris loses Ingersoll gets to challenge for his spot 
again?' 

'I do not require his root, for I am ready.' Arslanian bares canines. 

'Well that's the whole point. How can we be friends? Even if we all live and eat and 
shower and play together, how can we keep from being 136 deeply alone people all 
jammed together?' 

'You're talking about community. This is a community-spiel.' 

'I think alienation,' Arslanian says, rolling the profile over to signify he's talking to 
Ingersoll. 'Existential individuality, frequently referred to in the West. Solipsism.' His 
upper lip goes up and down over his teeth. 

Hal says, 'In a nutshell, what we're talking about here is loneliness.' 

Blott looks about ready to cry. Beak's palsied eyes and little limb-spasms signify a 
troubling dream. Blott rubs his nose furiously with the heel of his hand. 

'I miss my dog,' Ingersoll concedes. 

'Ah.' Hal rolls onto one elbow to hike a finger into the air. 'Ah. But then so notice the 
instant group-cohesion that formed itself around all the pissing and moaning down 
there why don't you. Blott. You, Kent. This was your question. The what looks like 
sadism, the skeletal stress, the fatigue. The suffering unites us. They want to let us sit 
around and bitch. Together. After a bad P.M. set we all, however briefly, get to feel we 
have a common enemy. This is their gift to us. Their medicine. Nothing brings you 
together like a common enemy.' 

'Mr. deLint.' 

'Dr. Tavis. Schtitt.' 

'DeLint. Watson. Nwangi. Thode. All Schtitt's henchmen and henchwomen.' 

'I hate them!' Blott cries out. 

'And you've been here this long and you still think this hatred's an accident?' 

'Purchase a clue Kent Blott!' Arslanian says. 

'The large and economy-size clue, Blott,' Ingersoll chimes. 

Beak sits up and says 'God no not with pliers!' and collapses back again, again with the 
spit-bubble. 

Hal is pretending incredulity. 'You guys haven't noticed yet the way Schtitt's whole 
staff gets progressively more foul-tempered and sadistic as an important competitive 
week comes up?' 

Ingersoll up on one elbow at Blott. 'The Port Washington meet. I.D. Day. The Tucson 
WhataBurger the week after. They want us in absolute top shape, Blott.' 

Hal lies back and lets Smith's ballet de se loosen his facial muscles again, staring. 'Shit, 
Ingersoll, we're all in top shape already. That's not it. That's the least of it. We're off the 
charts, shape-wise.' 

Ingersoll: 'The average North American kid can't even do one pull-up, according to 



Nwangi.' 

Arslanian points down at his own chest. 'Twenty-eight pull-ups.' 

'The point,' Hal says softly, 'is that it's not about the physical anymore, men. The 
physical stuff's just pro forma. It's the heads they're working on here, boys. Day and 
year in and out. A whole program. It'll help your attitude to look for evidence of design. 
They always give us something to hate, really hate together, as big stuff looms. The 
dreaded May drills during finals before the summer tour. The post-Christmas crackdown 
before Australia. The November freezathon, the snot-fest, the delay in upping the Lung 
and getting us under cover. A common enemy. / may despise K. B. Freer, or' (can't quite 
resist) 'Evan Ingersoll, or Jennie Bash. But we despise Schtitt's men, the double matches 
on top of runs, the insensitivity to exams, the repetition, the stress. The loneliness. But 
we get together and bitch, all of a sudden we're giving something group expression. A 
community voice. Community, Evan. Oh they're cunning. They give themselves up to our 
dislike, calculate our breaking points and aim for just over them, then send us into the 
locker room with an unstructured forty-five before Big Buddy sessions. Accident? 
Random happenstance? You guys ever see evidence of the tiniest lack of coolly 
calculated structure around here?' 

'The structure's what I hate the most of all,' Ingersoll says. 

'They know what's going on,' Blott says, bouncing a little on his tailbone. 'They want us 
to get together and complain.' 

'Oh they're cunning,' Ingersoll says. 

Hal curls himself a bit on one elbow to put in a small plug of Kodiak. He can't tell 
whether Ingersoll's being insolent. He lies there very slack, visualizing Smith pounding 
overheads down onto Ingersoll's skull. Hal some weeks back had acquiesced to Lyle's 
diagnosis that Hal finds Ingersoll — this smart soft caustic kid, with a big soft 
eyebrowless face and unwrinkled thumb-joints, with the runty, cuddled look of a 
Mama's boy from way back, a quick intelligence he squanders on an insatiable need to 
advance some impression of himself — that the kid so repels Hal because Hal sees in the 
kid certain parts of himself he can't or won't accept. None of this ever occurs to Hal 
when Ingersoll's in the room. He wishes him ill. 

Blott and Arslanian are looking at him. 'Are you OK?' 

'He is tired,' Arslanian says. 

Ingersoll drums idly on his own ribcage. 

Hal usually gets secretly high so regularly these days this year that if by dinnertime he 
hasn't gotten high yet that day his mouth begins to fill with spit — some rebound effect 
from B. Hope's desiccating action — and his eyes start to water as if he's just yawned. 
The smokeless tobacco started almost as an excuse to spit, sometimes. Hal's struck by 
the fact that he really for the most part believes what he's said about loneliness and the 
structured need for a we here; and this, together with the Ingersoll-repulsion and spit- 
flood, makes him uncomfortable again, brooding uncomfortably for a moment on why 
he gets off on the secrecy of getting high in secret more than on the getting high itself, 
possibly. He always gets the feeling there's some clue to it on the tip of his tongue, some 
mute and inaccessible part of the cortex, and then he always feels vaguely sick, scanning 
for it. The other thing that happens if he doesn't do one-hitters sometime before dinner 



is he feels slightly sick to his stomach, and it's hard to eat enough at dinner, and then 
later when he does go off and get off he gets ravenous, and goes out to Father & Son 
Market for candy, or else floods his eyes with Murine and heads down to the 
Headmaster's House for another late dinner with C.T. and the Moms, and eats like such 
a feral animal that the Moms says it does something instinctively maternal in her heart 
good to see him pack it away, but then he wakes before dawn with awful indigestion. 

'So the suffering gets less lonely,' Blott prompts him. 

Two curves down the hall in V.R.5, where the viewer's on the south wall and doesn't 
get turned on, the Canadian John Wayne's got LaMont Chu and 'Sleepy T.P.' Peterson 
and Kieran McKenna and Brian van Vleck. 

'He's talking about developing the concept of tennis mastery,' Chu tells the other 
three. They're on the floor Indian-style, Wayne standing with his back against the door, 
rotating his head to stretch the neck. 'His point is that progress towards genuine Show- 
caliber mastery is slow, frustrating. Humbling. A question of less talent than 
temperament.' 

'Is this right Mr. Wayne?' 

Chu says '...that because you proceed toward mastery through a series of plateaus, so 
there's like radical improvement up to a certain plateau and then what looks like a stall, 
on the plateau, with the only way to get off one of the plateaus and climb up to the next 
one up ahead is with a whole lot of frustrating mindless repetitive practice and patience 
and hanging in there.' 

'Plateaux,' Wayne says, looking at the ceiling and pushing the back of his head 
isometrically against the door. 'With an X. Plateaux.' 

The inactive viewer's screen is the color of way out over the Atlantic looking straight 
down on a cold day. Chu's cross-legged posture is textbook. 'What John's saying is the 
types who don't hang in there and slog on the patient road toward mastery are basically 
three. Types. You've got what he calls your Despairing type, who's fine as long as he's in 
the quick-improvement stage before a plateau, but then he hits a plateau and sees 
himself seem to stall, not getting better as fast or even seeming to get a little worse, and 
this type gives in to frustration and despair, because he hasn't got the humbleness and 
patience to hang in there and slog, and he can't stand the time he has to put in on 
plateaux, and what happens?' 

'Geronimo!' the other kids yell, not quite in sync. 

'He bails, right,' Chu says. He refers to index cards. Wayne's head makes the door 
rattle slightly. Chu says, 'Then you've got your Obsessive type, J.W. says, so eager to 
plateau-hop he doesn't even know the word patient, much less bumble or slog, when he 
gets stalled at a plateau he tries to like will and force himself off it, by sheer force of 
work and drill and will and practice, drilling and obsessively honing and working more 
and more, as in frantically, and he overdoes it and gets hurt, and pretty soon he's all 
chronically messed up with injuries, and he hobbles around on the court still obsessively 
overworking, until finally he's hardly even able to walk or swing, and his ranking 
plummets, until finally one P.M. there's a little knock on his door and it's deLint, here for 
a little chat about your progress here at E.T.A.' 

'Banzai! El Bailo! See yaI' 



'Then what John considers maybe the worst type, because it can cunningly 
masquerade as patience and humble frustration. You've got the Complacent type, who 
improves radically until he hits a plateau, and is content with the radical improvement 
he's made to get to the plateau, and doesn't mind staying at the plateau because it's 
comfortable and familiar, and he doesn't worry about getting off it, and pretty soon you 
find he's designed a whole game around compensating for the weaknesses and chinks in 
the armor the given plateau represents in his game, still — his whole game is based on 
this plateau now. And little by little, guys he used to beat start beating him, locating the 
chinks of the plateau, and his rank starts to slide, but he'll say he doesn't care, he says 
he's in it for the love of the game, and he always smiles but there gets to be something 
sort of tight and hangdog about his smile, and he always smiles and is real nice to 
everybody and real good to have around but he keeps staying where he is while other 
guys hop plateaux, and he gets beat more and more, but he's content. Until one day 
there's a quiet knock at the door.' 

'It's DeLint!' 

'A quiet chat!' 

'Geronzai!' 

Van Vleck looks up at Wayne, who's now turned away with his hands against the door 
frame, shoving, one leg back, stretching the right calf. 'This is your advice, Mr. Wayne 
sir? This isn't Chu palming himself off as you again?' 

They all want to know how Wayne does it, #2 continentally in 18's at just seventeen, 
and very likely #1 after the WhataBurger and already getting calls from ProServ agents 
Tavis has Lateral Alice Moore screen. Wayne's the most sought-after Big Buddy at E.T.A. 
You have to apply for Wayne as Buddy by random drawing. 

LaMont Chu and T. P. Peterson are sending van Vleck optical daggers as Wayne turns 
around to stretch a hip-flexor and says he's said pretty much all he has to say. 

'Todder, I admire your savvy, I admire a kid's certain worldly skepticism, no matter 
how misplaced it is here. So even though it fucks me on the odds, so there's now like 
practically no way I can come out square,' M. Pemulis says in V.R.2, subdorm C, sitting 
on the very edge of the divan with a few feet of beige shag between him and his four 
kids, all cross-legged on cushions; he says. Til reward your worldly skepticism this once 
by letting you try it with only two, so like I've got just two cards here, and I hold them 
up, one in each hand...' He stops abruptly, knocks his temple with the heel of a hand 
that holds a Jack. 'Whoa, what am I thinking. We all gotta put in our fiveski here first.' 

Otis P. Lord clears his throat: 'The ante.' 

'Or it's called the pot,' says Todd Possalthwaite, laying a five on the little pile. 

'Jaysus I'm thinking, sweet Jaysus what am I getting into with these kids that speak the 
lingo like veteran Jersey-shore croupiers. I got to be missing a widget or something, 't 
the fuck, though, you know what I'm saying? So Todd man you choose just one of the 
cards, we got the clubby Jack and the spade Queen here, and you choose... and so down 
they go both of them face-down, and I like swirl them around on the floor a little, not 
shuffle but swirl so they're in plain view the whole time, and you follllllowwwwwwww 
the card you chose, around and around, which like with three cards maybe I've got 
some chance you lose track but with two? With just two?' 



Ted Schacht in V.R.3 at his giant plasticene oral demonstrator, the huge dental mock- 
up, white planks of teeth and obscene pink gums, twine-size floss anchored around both 
wrists: 

'The vital thing here gentlemen being not the force or how often you rotate to 
particulate-free floss but the motion , see, a soft sawing motion, gently up and down 
both ancipitals of the enamel 1 — demonstrating down the side of a bicuspid big as the 
kids' heads, the plasticene gum-stuff yielding with sick sucking sounds, Schacht's five 
kids all either glazed-looking or glued to their watch's second-hand — 'and then here's 
the key, here's the thing so few people understand: down below the ostensible gumline 
into the basal recessions at either side of the gingival mound that obtrudes between the 
teeth, down below , where your most pernicious particulates hide and breed.' 

Troeltsch holds court in his, Pemulis and Schacht's room in Subdorm C, supinely 
upright against both of his and one of Schacht's pillows, the vaporizer chugging, one of 
his kids holding Kleenex at the ready. 

'Boys, what it is is I'll tell you it's repetition. First last always. It's hearing the same 
motivational stuff over and over till sheer repetitive weight makes it sink down into the 
gut. It's making the same pivots and lunges and strokes over and over and over again, at 
you boys's age it's reps for their own sake, putting results on the back burner, why they 
never give anybody the boot for insufficient progress under fourteen, it's repetitive 
movements and motions for their own sake, over and over until the accretive weight of 
the reps sinks the movements themselves down under your like consciousness into the 
more nether regions, through repetition they sink and soak into the hardware, the C.P.S. 
The machine-language. The autonomical part that makes you breathe and sweat. It's no 
accident they say you Eat, Sleep, Breathe tennis here. These are autonomical. Accretive 
means accumulating, through sheer mindless repeated motions. The machine-language 
of the muscles. Until you can do it without thinking about it, play. At like fourteen, give 
and take, they figure here. Just do it. Forget about is there a point, of course there's no 
point. The point of repetition is there is no point. Wait until it soaks into the hardware 
and then see the way this frees up your head. A whole shitload of head-space you don't 
need for the mechanics anymore, after they've sunk in. Now the mechanics are wired in. 
Flardwired in. This frees the head in the remarkablest ways. Just wait. You start thinking 
a whole different way now, playing. The court might as well be inside you. The ball stops 
being a ball. The ball starts being something that you just know ought to be in the air, 
spinning. This is when they start getting on you about concentration. Right now of 
course you have to concentrate, there's no choice, it's not wired down into the language 
yet, you have to think about it every time you do it. But wait till fourteen or fifteen. 
Then they see you as being at one of the like crucial plateaus. Fifteen, tops. Then the 
concentration and character shit starts. Then they really come after you. This is the 
crucial plateau where character starts to matter. Focus, self-consciousness, the 
chattering head, the cackling voices, the choking-issue, fear versus whatever isn't fear, 
self-image, doubts, reluctances, little tight-lipped cold-footed men inside your mind, 
cackling about fear and doubt, chinks in the mental armor. Now these start to matter. 
Thirteen at the earliest. Staff looks at a range of thirteen to fifteen. Also the age of 
manhood-rituals in various cultures. Think about it. Until then, repetition. Until then you 



might as well be machines, here, is their view. You're just going through the motions. 
Think about the phrase: Going Through The Motions. Wiring them into the 
motherboard. You guys don't know how good you've got it right now.' 

James Albrecht Lockley Struck Jr. of Orinda CA prefers one long Q&A-type interface, 
with V.R.8's viewer playing ambient stuff against relaxation-vistas of surf, shimmering 
ponds, fields of nodding wheat. 

'Time for about maybe two more, me droogies.' 

'Say it's close and the guy starts kertwanging you. Balls are way in and he's calling 
them out. You can't believe the flagrancy of it.' 

'Implicit this is a no-linesman situation, Traub, you're saying.' 

Creepily-blue-eyed Audern Tallat-Kelpsa chimes in: 'This is early rounds. The kind they 
give you only two balls. Honor systems. All of a sudden there he is kertwanging on you. 
It happens.' 

'I know it happens.' 

Traub says, 'Whether he's outright kertwanging or just head-fucking you. Do you start 
kertwanging back? Tit for tat? What do you do?' 

'Do we assume there's a crowd.' 

'Early round. Remote court. No witnesses. You're on your own out there. Do you 
kertwang back.' 

'You do not kertwang back. You play the calls, not a word, keep smiling. If you still win, 
you'll have grown inside as a person.' 

'If you lose?' 

'If you lose, you do something private and unpleasant to his water-jug right before his 
next round.' 

A couple of the kids have notebooks and studious nods. Struck is a prized tactician, 
very formal in B.B. group-sessions, something scholarly and detached about him his 
charges often revere. 

'We can discuss private water-jug unpleasantness on Friday,' Struck says, looking at his 
watch. 

A hand raised by the violently cross-eyed Carl Whale, age thirteen. Acknowledgment 
from Struck. 

'Say you have to fart.' 

'You're serious, Mobes, aren't you.' 

'Jim sir, say you're playing out there, and suddenly you have to fart. It feels like one of 
those real hot nasty pressurized ones.' 

'I get the picture.' 

Now some empathic murmurs, exchanged looks. Josh Gopnik is nodding very 
intensely. Struck stands very straight to the right of the viewer, hands behind his back 
like an Oxford don. 

'I mean the kind that's real urgent.' Whale looks briefly around him. 'But that it's not 
impossible it's actually a need to go to the bathroom, instead, masquerading as a fart.' 

Now five heads are nodding, pained, urgent: clearly a vexing sub-14 issue. Struck 
examines a cuticle. 

'Meaning defecate is what you mean, then, Mobes. Go to the bathroom.' 



Gopnik looks up. 'Carl's saying the kind where you don't know what to do. What if you 
think you have to fart but it's really that you have to shit?' 

'As in it's a competitive situation, it's not a situation where you can go bearing down 
and forcing and see what happens.' 

'So out of caution you don't,' Gopnik says. 

'—fart,' Philip Traub says. 

'But then you've denied yourself an urgent fart, and you're running around trying to 
compete with a terrible hot nasty uncomfortable fart riding around the court inside 
you.' 

Two levels down. Ortho Stice and his brood: the little libraryish circle of soft chairs and 
lamps in the warm foyer off the front door to subdorm C: 

'And what he says he says it's about more than tennis, mein kinder. Mein kinder, well 
it sort of means my family. He eyeballs me right square in the eye and says it's about 
how to reach down into parts of yourself you didn't know were there and get down in 
there and live inside these parts. And the only way to get to them: sacrifice. Suffer. 
Deny. What are you willing to give. You'll hear him ask it if you're privileged to ever get 
an interface. The call could come at anytime: the man wants a mano-to-mano interface. 
You'll hear him say it over and over. What have you got to give. What are you willing to 
part with. I see you're looking a little pale there, Wagenknecht. Is this scary you bet your 
little pink personal asses it's scary. It's the big time. He'll tell you straight the fuck out. 
It's about discipline and sacrifice and honor to something way bigger than your personal 
ass. He'll mention America. He'll talk patriotism and don't think he won't. He'll talk 
about it's patriotic play that's the high road to the thing. He's not American but I tell you 
straight out right here he makes me proud to be American. Mein kinder. He'll say it's 
how to learn to be a good American during a time, boys, when America isn't good its 
own self.' 

There's a long pause. The front door is newer than the wood around it. 

'I'd chew fiberglass for that old man.' 

The only reason the Buddies in V.R.8 can hear the little burst of applause from the 
foyer is because Struck won't hesitate to pause and consider silently as long as he has 
to. To the kids the pauses spell dignity and integrity and the still-water depth of a guy 
with nine years in at three different academies, and who has to shave daily. He exhales 
a slow breath through rounded lips, looking off up at the ceiling's guilloche border. 

'Mobes, if it's me: I let it ride.' 

'You let it out come what may?' 

'A la contraire. I let it ride around inside all day if I have to. I make an iron rule: nothing 
escapes my bottom during play. Not a toot or a whistle. If I play hunched over I play 
hunched over. I take the discomfort in the name of dignified caution, and when it's 
especially bad I look up at sky between points and I say to the sky Thank You Sir may I 
have another. Thank You Sir may I have another.' 

Gopnik and Tallat-Kelpsa are writing this down. 

Struck says, 'That's if I want to hang for the long haul.' 

'One side of the gingival mound, then up over the apex and down over the other side 
of the gingival mound, using you should cultivate a certain amount of touch with the 



string.' 

'Now the big question of character is do we let a fluke of a probably one-in-a-hundred 
lapse in concentration make us throw up our faggy hands and go dragging 
characterlessly back to our dens to lick the whimpering wounds, or do we narrow our 
eyes and put out the chin and say Pemulis we say we say Pemulis, Double or Nothing, 
when the odds remain so almost crazily stacked in our favor today.' 

'So they do it on purpose? 1 Beak is asking. 'Try to make us hate them?' 

Limits and rituals. It's almost time for communal dinner. Sometimes Mrs. Clarke in the 
kitchen lets Mario ring a triangle with a steel ladle while she rolls back the dining-room 
doors. They make the servers wear hairnets and little Ob/Gynish gloves. Hal could take 
out the plug and nip down into the tunnels, maybe not even all the way down into the 
Pump Room. Be only twenty minutes late. He's thinking in an abstract absent way about 
limits and rituals, listening to Blott give Beak his apergu. Like as in is there a clear line, a 
quantifiable difference between need and just strong desire. He has to sit up to spit in 
the wastebasket. There is a twinge in a tooth on his mouth's left side. 


MARIO INCANDENZAS FIRST AND ONLY EVEN REMOTELY 
ROMANTIC EXPERIENCE, THUS FAR 


In mid-October Y.D.A.U., Hal had invited Mario for a post-prandial stroll, and they 
were strolling the E.T.A. grounds between the West Courts and the hillside's tree-line, 
Hal with his gear bag. Mario could sense that Hal wanted to be able to go off by himself 
briefly, so he contrived (Mario did) to be very interested in some sort of leaf-and-twig 
ensemble off the path, and let Hal sort of melt away down the path. The whole area 
running along the tree-line and the thickets of like shrubbery and stickery bushes and 
heaven knew what all was covered with fallen leaves that were dry but had not yet 
quite all the way lost their color. The leaves were underfoot. Mario kind of tottered 
from tree to tree, pausing at each tree to rest. It was @ 1900h., not yet true twilight, but 
the only thing left of the sunset was a snout just over Newton, and the places under 
long shadows were cold, and a certain kind of melancholy sadness was insinuating itself 
into the grounds' light. The staggered lamps by the paths hadn't come on yet, however. 

A lovely scent of illegally burned leaves wafting up from East Newton mixed with the 
foody smells from the ventilator turbines out of the back of the dining hall. Two gulls 
were in one place in the air over the dumpsters over by the rear parking lot. Leaves 
crackled underfoot. The sound of Mario walking in dry leaves was like: crackle crackle 



crackle stop; crackle crackle crackle stop. 

An Empire Waste Displacement displacement vehicle whistled past overhead, rising in 
the start of its arc, its one blue alert-light atwinkle. 

He was around where the tree-line bulged herniatically out toward the end of the 
West Courts' fencing. From deeper inside the thickets on the lip of the hillside came a 
tremendous crackling and thrashing of underbrush and trailing willow-branches, and 
who should heave into unexpected view but the U.S.S. Millicent Kent, a sixteen-year-old 
out of Montclair NJ, #1 Singles on the Girls 16's-A squad and two hundred kilos if she 
was a kilo. Southpaw, one-hander off the backhand side, a serve Donnie Stott likes to 
clock with radar, and chart. Mario's filmed the U.S.S. Millicent Kent for staff-analysis on 
several occasions. They exchange hearty Hi's. One of only a couple female E.T.A.s with 
visible veins in her forearms, object of a fiercely-wagered-on bench-press challenge 
against Schacht, Freer, and Petropolis Kahn that M. Pemulis had organized last spring, in 
which she'd topped Kahn and Freer refused to show and Schacht finally beat her but 
doffed his cap. Out for a staff-ordered weight-management post-dinner stroll, squeezing 
Penn 5's in both hands, in E.T.A. sweat pants and with an enormous violet bow either 
Scotch-taped or glued to the blunt rounded top of her hair. She told Mario she'd just 
seen the strangest thing farther back deeper in the thickets off the lip. Her hair was tall 
and rounded off in the shape of a kind of pill, not unlike a papal hat or a British 
constable's tall hat. Mario said the bow looked terrific, and what a surprise to come face 
to face like this out here in the chill dusk. Bridget Boone had said the U.S.S. Millicent 
Kent's coiffure looked like a missile protruding from its silo in preparation for launch. 
The last of the sun's snout was setting just over the tip of the U.S.S. Millicent's hair, 
which was almost osseously hard-looking, composed of dense woven nests of reticulate 
fibers like a dry loofa sponge, which she said over the summer a home-perm had 
misfired and left her hair a system of reticulate nests, and was only now loosening up 
enough even to attach a bow to. Mario said that well the bow set her off to a T, was all 
he had to say on the matter. (He hadn't literally said 'chill dusk.') The U.S.S.M.K. said 
she'd been amusing herself beating her way through one of the brambly thickets Mrs. 
Incandenza had — when she'd still spent time outdoors at all — planted to discourage 
part-time employees from short-cutting up the hillside to E.T.A., and had come upon a 
Husky Vl-brand telescoping tripod, new and dully silvery-looking and set up on its three 
legs, right in the middle of the thicket. For no visible reason and with no footprints or 
visible evidence of path-beating anywhere around except the U.S.S. Millicent's own. The 
U.S.S. Millicent Kent stowed a tennis ball in each hip pocket and took Mario's claw and 
said here to walk this way and she'd show him real quick, and get his like feedback on 
the issue, and plus have a witness when they got back and she told people about it. 
Mario said the Husky VI came with its own pan head and cable release. With the girl 
supporting him with one hand and beating an easement through the brush with the 
other they proceeded deeper into the thicket on the lip. The outdoor light was now the 
same hue as U.S.S.M.K.'s hairbow. She said she swore to God it was around here 
someplace. Mario said his late dad had used a somewhat less snazzy IV-model Husky 
back in his early days of making art-films, when he also used a homemade dolly and 
sandbags and halogen spots instead of kliegs. Several different species and types of 



birds were twittering. 

The U.S.S. Millicent Kent told Mario that off the record she'd always felt he had the 
longest lushest prettiest lashes of any boy on two continents, three if you counted 
Australia. Mario thanked her kindly, calling her Ma'am and trying to fake a Southern 
accent. 

The U.S.S. Millicent Kent said she wasn't sure what were her old footprints from 
finding the thicket with the tripod and what were their more recent footprints from 
trying to find the old footprints, and that she was worried because it was starting to get 
dark and they might not be able to find it and then Mario wouldn't believe she'd seen 
something as batshit-sounding as a gleaming silvery tripod all set up for no reason in the 
middle of nowheresville. 

Mario said he was pretty sure that Australia was a continent. Walking, he came up to 
around the bottom of U.S.S. Millicent's ribcage. 

Mario heard crackling and thrashing from some other thicket nearby but was certain it 
wasn't Hal, since Hal very rarely made a lot of motion-noise either outside or in-. 

The U.S.S. Millicent Kent told Mario that though she was an admittedly great player, 
w/ an overwhelming haul-ass-up-to-the-net-and-loom-over-it-like-a-titan game in the 
Betty Stove/Venus Williams power-game tradition, and headed for an almost limitless 
future in the Show, she'd confide in him in private out here that she'd never really loved 
competitive tennis, that her real love and passion was modern interpretive dance, at 
which she admittedly had less unconsciously native gifts and talents to bring to bear, 
but which she loved, and had spent just about all her off-court time as a little girl 
practicing in a leotard in front of a double-width mirror in her room at home in 
suburban Montclair NJ, but that tennis was what she had limitless talent at and got 
emotional strokes and tuition-waiver boarding-school offers in, and that she'd been 
desperate to get into a boarding school. Mario asked if she could recall if the Husky-VI 
tripod had been the TL one with waffle-gridded rubber tips on the legs and a 360° pan 
head or the SL one with unwaffled tips and only a 180° pan head that swiveled in an arc 
instead of a full circle. The U.S.S. Millicent revealed that she'd accepted a scholarship to 
E.T.A. at age nine for the sole reason of getting away from her father. She referred to 
her father as her Old Man, which you can just tell she capitalizes. Her mother had left 
home when the U.S.S. Millicent was only five, running off very abruptly with a man sent 
by what had then been called Con-Edison to do a free home-energy-efficiency 
assessment. It had been six years since she'd laid an eyeball on her Old Man, but to the 
best of her recall he was almost three meters tall and morbidly obese, which had been 
why every mirror and bathtub in the house had been double-width. One older sister 
who'd been deeply involved in synchronized swimming had got pregnant and married in 
high school soon after her mother's departure. 

All this time there's been more crackling and crashing off up the hillside. Mario has 
trouble on any kind of declined grade. Some sort of bird's sitting in the top branch of a 
little tree and looking at them without saying anything. Mario thinks suddenly of a joke 
he remembers hearing Michael Pemulis tell: 

'If two people get married in West Virginia and then pull up stakes and move to 
Massachusetts and then if they decide they want to get a divorce, what's the biggest 



problem getting a divorce?' 

The U.S.S.M.K. says her other older sister had at just fifteen joined the Ice Capades of 
all things, and was in the back-up-like chorus where the biggest artistic challenge was 
not bumping into people and either falling or making them fall. 

'Getting a divorce from your sister, because in West Virginia Pemulis said a lot of 
people who get married are brother and sister.' 

'Hold my hand.' 

'He was only joking, though.' 

By now the light was about the same color as the ash and clinkers in the bottom of a 
Weber Grill. The U.S.S. Millicent Kent was leading them in a set of slightly diminishing 
circles. Then, she said, at age eight she came home early from after-school drills at the 
U.S.T.A. Jr. Facility in Passaic NJ looking forward to slipping into the old leotard and 
getting in some modern interpretive dancing up in her room, only to come home 
suddenly and find her father wearing her leotard. Which needless to say didn't fit very 
well. And with the small front portion of his huge bare feet squeezed into a pair of 
strapless pumps Mrs. Kent had left behind in her haste. In the dining room he'd moved 
all the furniture over to the side of, in front of the really wide mirror, in a grotesquely 
tiny and bulging violet leotard, capering. Mario says violet's really the U.S.S. Millicent's 
color. She says that was the exact creepy word for it: capering. Pirouetting and 
rondelling. Simpering, as well. The crotch of her leotard looked like a slingshot, it was so 
deformed. He hadn't heard her come in. U.S.S. Millicent asked Mario if he'd ever seen a 
girl's yin-yang before. Obscene mottled hirsute flesh had pooched and spilled out over 
every centimeter of the leotard's perimeter, she recalled. She'd had a voluptuous figure 
even at eight, she told Mario, but the Old Man was in a whole different-sized ballpark 
altogether. Mario kept saying Golly Ned, all he could think of to say. His flesh jiggled and 
bounced as he capered. It was repellent, she said. There was no sign of a Husky VI or any 
other model of tripod in any of the thickets and boscages. Her literal term for it was 'yin- 
yang.' But her Old Man wasn't just a cross-dressing transvestite, she said; it turned out 
they always had to be a relative's female clothes. She said she always used to wonder 
why her sisters' one-pieces and figure-skating skirts always looked so askewly baggy and 
elastic-shot, since the sisters didn't exactly wear tiny little malnourished sizes 
themselves. The Old Man didn't hear her come in and he capered and jeteed for several 
more minutes until she happened to catch his simpering eye in the mirror, she said. 
That's when she knew she had to get away, she said. And Mario's own old man's 
Admissions lady had called out of the blue that very evening, she said. Like it had been 
fate. Serendipity. Kismet. 

'Yin-yang,' Mario offered, nodding. The U.S.S. Millicent's hand was large and hot and 
at the level of sogginess of a bathmat that's been used several times in a row in quick 
succession. 

Her second-oldest sister, many years later, had informed the U.S.S.M.K. that the first 
time anybody'd had any inklings about the Old Man was an episode when the older 
sister was very small and Mrs. K. had sewed her a special costume complete with gold- 
lame bow & arrow for playing Cupid in the school Valentine's Day pageant, and the 
sister's school had got out early one day after an asbestos scare and she'd come 



unexpectedly home and found the Old Man in the basement rumpus room in tiny wings 
and hideously distended diaper striking a pose from a rather well-known Titian oil in the 
Met's High Renaissance Wing, and had struggled with denial and own-perceptions- 
doubting for quite some time thereafter, until a hysterical episode during rehearsals for 
an Ice Capades Valentine's Day number brought all the feelings surging up and broke the 
denial, and the Ice Capades' Employee Assistance Office counselling staff helped her 
start to work it all through. 

At which point U.S.S. Millicent stopped them in an unprickly thicket of what later 
turned out to be poison sumac and turned with a strange glint in the one eye that 
wasn't in pine-shadow and crushed Mario's large head to the area just below her 
breasts and said she needed to confess that Mario's eyelashes and vest with extendable 
police lock he used for staying upright in one place had for quite some time now driven 
her right around the bend with sensual feeling. What Mario perceived as a sudden 
radical drop in the prevailing temperature was in fact the U.S.S. Millicent Kent's sexual 
stimulation sucking tremendous quantities of ambient energy out of the air surrounding 
them. Mario's face was so squashed against the U.S.S. Millicent's thorax that he had to 
contort his mouth way out to the left to breathe. U.S.S.M.K.'s hairbow became detached 
and fluttered down through Mario's sightline like a giant crazed violet moth. U.S.S.M.K. 
was trying to undo Mario's corduroys but was frustrated by the complex system of 
snaps and fasteners at the bottom of his police lock's Velcro vest, which overlapped his 
trouser's own fasteners, and Mario tried to reconfigure his mouth somehow to both 
breathe and warn the U.S.S.M.K. that he was incredibly ticklish in the area of the 
bellybutton and directly below. He could now start to hear his brother Hal somewhere 
to the above and east, calling Mario's name at a moderate volume. The U.S.S. Millicent 
Kent was saying there was no way Mario could be any more nervous than she was about 
what was happening between them. It's true that the sounds of Mario sucking air out of 
a severely leftward-contorted mouth could have been interpretable as the heavy 
breathing of sexual stimulation. It was when the U.S.S. Millicent wrapped one arm 
around his shoulder for leverage and forced her other hand up under the hem of the 
tight vest and then down inside the trousers and briefs, rooting for a penis, that Mario 
became so ticklish that he began to double up, clearing his face of U.S.S. Millicent's front 
and laughing out loud in such a distinctive high-pitched way that Hal had no trouble 
beelining right upon them, compromised though his navigational systems were after 
fifteen or so secret minutes alone in the fragrant pines. Mario later said it was just like 
when there was a word on the tip of your tongue that try as you might you can't 
remember until the exact second you stop trying, and in it pops, right into your head: it 
was when the three of them were walking together back up the hillside toward the tree¬ 
line's lip, not trying to do anything but get back to Comm.-Ad. by the most direct route 
in the dark, that they stumbled upon the cinematic tripod, a dully glinting TL waffle- 
tipped Husky, in the middle of what wasn't such a very tall or thick thicket at all.