30 APRIL — YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT 


Several times also Marathe called U.S.A. to Steeply 'Your walled nation' or 'Your 
murated nation.' 


An oiled guru sits in yogic full lotus in Spandex and tank top. He's maybe forty. He's in 
full lotus on top of the towel dispenser just above the shoulder-pull station in the weight 
room of the Enfield Tennis Academy, Enfield MA. Saucers of muscle protrude from him 
and run together so that he looks almost crustacean. His head gleams, his hair jet-black 
and extravagantly feathered. His smile could sell things. Nobody knows where he comes 
from or why's he's allowed to stay, but he's always in there, sitting yogic about a meter 
off the rubberized floor of the weight room. His tank top says TRANSCEND in silkscreen; 
on the back it's got DEUS PROVIDEBIT in Day-Glo orange. It's always the same tank top. 
Sometimes the color of the Spandex leggings changes. 

This guru lives off the sweat of others. Literally. The fluids and salts and fatty acids. 
He's like a beloved nut. He's an E.T.A. institution. You do like maybe some sets of 
benches, some leg-curls, inclined abs, crunches, work up a good hot shellac of sweat; 
then, if you let him lick your arms and forehead, he'll pass on to you some little nugget 
of fitness-guru wisdom. His big one for a long time was: 'And the Lord said: Let not the 
weight thou wouldst pull to thyself exceed thine own weight.' His advice on conditioning 
and injury-prevention tends to be pretty solid, is the consensus. His tongue is little and 
rough but feels good, like a kitty's. It isn't like a faggy or sexual thing. Some of the girls 
let him, too. He's harmless as they come. He supposedly went way back with Dr. 
Incandenza, the Academy's founder, in the past. 

Some of the newer kids think he's a creep and want him out of there. What kind of 
guru wears Spandex and lives off others' perspiration? they complain. God only knows 
what he does in there when the weight room's closed at night, they say. 

Sometimes the newer kids who won't even let him near them come in and set the 



resistance on the shoulder-pull at a weight greater than their own weight. The guru on 
the towel dispenser just sits there and smiles and doesn't say anything. They hunker, 
then, and grimace, and try to pull the bar down, but, like, lo: the overweighted 
shoulder-pull becomes a chin-up. Up they go, their own bodies, toward the bar they're 
trying to pull down. Everyone should get at least one good look at the eyes of a man 
who finds himself rising toward what he wants to pull down to himself. And I like how 
the guru on the towel dispenser doesn't laugh at them, or even shake his head sagely on 
its big brown neck. He just smiles, hiding his tongue. He's like a baby. Everything he sees 
hits him and sinks without bubbles. He just sits there. I want to be like that. Able to just 
sit all quiet and pull life toward me, one forehead at a time. His name is supposedly Lyle. 


It was yrstruly and C and Poor Tony that crewed that day and everything like that. The 
AM were wicked bright and us a bit sick however we scored our wake ups boosting 
some items at a sidewalk sale in the Harvard Squar where it were warm upping and the 
snow coming off onnings and then later Poor Tony ran across an old Patty citizen type of 
his old aquaintance from like the Cape and Poor Tony got over and pretended like he 
would give a blow job On The House and we got the citizen to get in his ride with us and 
crewed on him good and we got enough $ off the Patty type to get straightened out for 
true all day and crewed on him hard and C wanted we should elemonade the Patty's 
map for keeps and everything like that and take his ride to this understanding slope strip 
shop he knows in Chinatown but Poor Tony turns white as a shit and said by no means 
and put up an arguement and everything like that and we just left the type there in his 
vehicle off Mem Dr we broke the jaw for insentive not to eat no cheese and C insisted 
and was not 2Bdenied and took off one ear which there was a mess and everything like 
that and then C throws the ear away after in a dumster so yrstrulys' like so what was the 
exact pernt to that like. The dumster was with the dumsters out by Steves' donuts in the 
Enfield Squar. We go back to the Brighton Projects to cop and Roy Tony was always 
there on his bench in the Playground in late AM but now all the Project Nigers was 
awake and out in the Playground and it was tense but it was day time and everything 
like that and we cop half a bundle from Roy Tony and we go down to the library at 
Copley where we stash our personnel works when we crewed and went into the 
mensroom where there was severel works on the floor allready that early and got 
straight in the stall and C and yrstruly had a beef about who shot three and who got two 
and we made Poor Tony give us up his third bag and then but we had to cop for that 
nite and tomorrow AM still which was XMas and had to cop in advance, its' a never 
ending strugle its' a full time job to stay straight and there is no vacation for XMas at 
anytime. Its' a fucking bitch of a life dont' let any body get over on you diffrent. And 
back we go to the Harvard Squar however on arrival Poor Tony wanted he should hang 
for lunch time with his red leather fags in the Bow&Arrow and pretty much I can 
tolerate fags when alone but together yrstruly I cant' fucking stand fags and yrstruly and 
C said fuck this shit and we screwed out and go up to the Central Squar where it was 
cool offing and the onnings re freezing and everything like that and snowing and 
boosted NyQuil at the CVS Drug where we go to the mop aile and employ a mophandle 



in tilting the mirror over the NyQuil aile and boosted NyQuil in Cs' coat and got messed 
up on NyQuil and scored a bookbag off a foran slope studn type kid on the Redline 
platform but it only had books and disks and the diskcase was fucking plastic and into a 
dumster with it it goes but also at this time we come up and run into Kely Vinoy that 
was working her corner by the dumster by Cheap-0 records in the Squar by the email 
place and shes 1 dopesick having a conversession with Eckwus and an other man and 
Eckwus said he said Stokely Darkstar just got freetested again at the Fenway and 
confirmed a big Boot 8.8 hes' got the Virus for sure and Purpleboy said he said Darkstar 
said how if he was going down he didnt 1 give a shit and wasnt' going to give a shit if he 
gave some others the Virus thru trancemission and the Word was out&about dont' 
share Stokely Darkstars 1 works dont' use works off Stokely Darkstar no matter how sick 
you are even if your' dyng for it get other works. Like C said any thing would count in 
your mind when your' sick and had copped and was minus works and Darkstar had 
works. We all every crew with heads left have personnel works for only ourselves that 
we use except blownout old hose like Kely and Purpleboy there Man takes there $ and 
there works and Hes 1 the only one can give them there shots and keep Kely just this side 
of dopesick 24-7 for insentive for her to make him more $ and everything like that, 
theres' nothing wurse than a Pimp and Boston Pimps are the wurst there' 10X wurse 
than NYC Pimps that are supperst to be so hartless in NYC where yrstruly petaled ass in 
the Columbus Squar for a time of my youth like Stokely Darkstar before departing for 
green pastures, and we had a conversession but were' coming down and it was getting 
dark and snowing for a White XMas and if we didnt' crew before like 2200 Roy Tonys' 
Nigers would be too drunk to keep them from beefing with us and thered' be a beef and 
everything like that if we go to cop after 2200 and who needs a grief so back we Redline 
to the Harvard Squar and all the foran studns are in the bars and we locate Poor Tony 
smoking hash with fags back of Au Bon Pain and say lets roll a foran studn stuck here for 
XMas in the bars and cop before 2200 and so we all go on the ice from the frozen 
melted snow to the Bow&Arrow in the Squar with Poor Tony and Lolasister and Susan T. 
Cheese who I fucking cant' stand and got in there and made Susan T. Cheese buy beers 
and we wait and no studns are leaving alone to roll but a older type individual who any 
body could see is no studn but is legless on shots alone at the bar fucking shatered 
slumped over is getting ready to depart for green pastures and Poor Tony tells Lolasister 
to screw she crews with Poor Tony some times but not if its' wet work and with Cs' 
involvement its' always wet work, and yrstruly I inform Susan T. Cheese she new better 
than not to screw as well and the older individual de parts shatered and holding onto 
walls in a hiclass and promising coat for the possibility of $ and pernts his old nose this 
way and that and everything like that thru the Bow&Arrow window C wipes the steam 
off, and has a conversession with a Santaclaus ringing a big bell for the kettle and were' 
like Jesus its' a never ending strugle to wait and cop but after awhile finally after stifing 
the Santaclaus we watch he picks a direction finally at last up Mass Ave toward the 
Central Squar on foot, and Poor Tony beats it around the block to get up in front of him 
around the block on the ice in his fucking heels and feather snake around his neck and 
gets him some how Poor Tony always knows how over to the dumsters' alley by Bay 
Bank off Sherman St, and yrstruly and C crew on the individual and roll him and C 



messes up his older map to a large degree and we leave him in no condition to eat 
cheese in a snow drift of materil under the dumster, and C again wants to siphon out a 
vehicle on Mass Av and set him on fire but he has 400 $ on his person and then some 
and a coat with a fury collar and a watch we realy scored and C even gosofar to take the 
non studns' shoes which they dont 1 fit, and in the dumster they go. 

And but so but back we go to the Brighton Projects but its 1 post 2200 its' too late Roy 
Tony hasnt' got his pissboys out hes' not open for comerce and yet it is like a Niger 
Convenssion in the Playground of the Brighton Projects with there glass pipes and there 
Crown Royal in purple bags and everything like that in the Playground of the Projects 
and if they smell were' holding this kindof $ amounts they will crew on us in numbers 
there' animals at nite with there purple velvet bags and p-dope and Redi Rok crack, one 
large Niger in a Patriots hat has a hart incident and downhegoes on the black top by the 
swing set right in front of us and none of his brothers unquot gosofar to do any thing he 
lays there there' animals at nite and we screw out with rickytick speed from the 
Brighton Projects, and we converse. And Poor Tony wants to just go over the line to the 
Enfield Squar and try and just cop p-dope from Delphina down by the Empire hangers or 
else what else hang with the fags at Steves' donuts and hear who else is holding weight 
in Enfield or Allston and everything like that, but Delphinas' p is from bunk the Word is 
out&about that its' all Manitol and kwai9 you might as well fucking cop XLax or 
Schweppes and C dopeslaps Poor Tony and C wants to Redline down to Chinatown but 
Poor Tony turns white as a shit and says Chinatowns' too dear in $ and everything like 
that, even for like bundles. Dr. Wo is 200 $ but atleast its' always good and but we have 
400 $ and then some and C pernts out we can fucking well afford Wos' well known 
exellent skeet for once at XMas and Poor Tony stamps a hiheel and says but how weve' 
got enough $ to stay straight and get Lolasister straight for XMas and all lay up and not 
have to never ending strugle at XMas and two or more days after that if we dont' blow it 
on XMas Eve in Chinatown instead of waiting which is a good pernt but when has any 
body known C to ever wait he gets dopesick faster than us and everything like that and 
is all piss and vinegar for Wo and starting with the Shivers and with the noses' mucis all 
ready and everything like that and C is not 2Bdenied and we say we are screwing down 
to Chinatown and if Poor Tony dont' want to come he can take a like a giant breath and 
hold it in the Squar until we get back and well' cop for him, and Poor Tony says he might 
be a dicksucking fag but hes' not a starry eyed' moroon. 

And so offwego and everything like that with 400 $ on the Orangeline, and thru a 
fucked up circumstances yrstruly and C almost end up raping a older type nurse in a 
white nurses' uniform and coat on the train but we dont' and but Poor Tony seems 
white and detracted on the train playng with his feather snake and says he says he 
seems in his mind maybe to recall an involvment in some type deal where Dr. Wo might 
of got slightly got over on and burnt and that maybe down in Chinatown we could air on 
the side of low profiles and try to cop some where else except from the Wos'. Except Dr. 
Wo is who we know. C is Wos' former aquaintance from crewing with slopes on the 
North shore for Whity Sorkin in the days of his youth. C is not 2Bdenied. And so at the 
Orangeline Tstop we grab a fat cab to about two blocks from Hung Toys and screw out 
of the cab at a light and the thing with fat cabbies is they cant' run after you and Poor 



Tony is pisser to watch tearassing it down the street in hiheels with a feather stoal. Poor 
Tony runs right by the front of Hung Toys, this is by pryor agreement to wait for us low 
profile down the street and yrstruly and C go in Hung Toys where they dont' open till 
2300 and sell tea unquot like 100 Proof tea till all hours and everything like that and 
never get Inspected because Dr. Wo has arrangements with Chinatowns' Finest. XMas is 
noncelebrated in Chinatown. Dr. Wo a good thing about Wo is hes' always there in Hung 
Toys at known times. Here theres 1 all old slope racial type ladies sitting in booths eating 
noddles and drinking quot tea out of white cups the size of a shotglass and everything 
like that. With small slope kids tearassing it all over and older men in like jew caps and 
skinny beerds out of just the middle of there chin but Dr. Wo is only middle aged and 
wears iron glasses and a tie and looks more like a banker for a slope but he is 100 % 
business and icecold all the way down for slope type comerce plus hes' connected 
bigtime and not to be fucked or got over on if some body has a head left and yrstruly I 
cant' believe Poor Tony would ever take part of tryng to crew on Wo who he knows thru 
C in even the smallest comerce and if he did C says he sure never heard about it nor saw 
any of the skeet or anything like that, and why. Cs' the one that knows Wo. We arranged 
Poor Tony to wait for us out side and try to be low profile. Its' sub 0 snow and hes' in a 
leather spring coat and stoal and brown wig thats' not as good as a hat and hell' freeze 
his low profile balls off and C was tryng to smile and he told Dr. Wo we needed three 
bundles and Dr. Wo was smiling in his slope manner said the boosting life must surely 
be exellent and C laughed and said most exellent Cs' tight with slopes he does the 
talking and everything like that, and he says were' going to lay up low profile for the 
XMas vacation and not crew because I had a rape type situation from an older nurse last 
nite on the T and almost got pinched by the Ts' Finest and Dr. Wo nods in a special 
subservant manner he uses for non slopes who hes' realy polite with but hes' a dictater 
to his slopes when we see him with his subservant slopes but with us were' allike most 
polite and everything like conversession and its' nice but expensive but it feels nice at 
the time but Wo finishes his so called tea and Wo goes back behind the curtains in the 
back of Hung Toys thats' a giant brightred curtain with purple mountains or hills and 
clouds that are flyng snakes with leather wings that is one curtain yrstruly would want 
to boost for personnel hanging use that no body that isnt' a slope and isnt' in with Wo 
cant' never go behind it but you can see when he opens it and goes behind the curtain it 
looks like merly more old slope ladies sitting on packing cases with slope writing eating 
more noddles in bowls they hold about like a millmeter from their yellow maps and 
everything like that. Slopes rarly stop shovling in the old noddles. Stokely Darkstar calls 
them maggoteaters and subservant slopes keep going in and out of the curtain while 
Wos' back there a longer than avrege time and Cs' got the Shivers and starting to jones 
and dope-fiends are full of super station and he says to yrstruly he says the fuck he says 
maybe what if Poor Tony realy did take part with burning Wo and what if a slope sees 
Poor Tony out side and is one of these slopes going in and out of the curtain maybe 
telling Wo, like ratting out Poor Tony as our aquaintance, and my muds is starting and 
were' jonesing super statiously over PT and wheres' Wo behind the curtain and 
everything like that, tryng to smile and conversession ultralow, drinking quot tea thats' 
like schnapps only wurse and green. And we jones and Dr. Wo comes back finally at last 



out smiling subservantly with all the wonderful skeet three bundles in a newspaper who 
could fucking read it but the pictures are of slope VIPs' in suits and Wo sits down, and 
Wo never sits down at the booth with the skeet it isnt' done in his comerce, and Wos' 
hands are folded over our skeet in the thing and Wo smiling says he asks C if weve' seen 
goodold Poor Tony or Susan T. Cheese around we crew with Poor Tony in boosting life 
did we not he said. C he says PT is a fucking dicksucking fag queer and a proven 
cheeseater and wed 1 fucked up his map and Cheese and Lolasisters' map in a beef and 
didnt' crew with fags since aprox the autum period. C is pouring mucis and tryng to 
smile cusually. Dr. Wo laughed in a harty fashion and said exellent and Wo leaned over 
our skeet sayng if we should happenbychance to see Poor Tony or them to please give 
Poor Tony his quite best regards and wish him prosparity and a thousand blisses. And 
everything like that. And we promote the newspaper of skeet and Wo promotes our $ 
and very politely outwego and I admit it yrstruly wanted we should burn Poor Tony and 
rickytick the fuck out of Chinatown but we go over down more by the China Pearl Place 
and Poor Tony is sortof hunched behind a lightpoal with his gray teeth chatting in his 
dress and thin coat tryng to be low profile in his red coat and heels around a million + 
slopes that all are subservants of Wo. And later after screwing out we didnt' tell him of 
what Wo said about sitting down and asking about him and Cheeses' blisses and we 
screw to the Orangeline to our hot air blowergrate we use at nite at the library behind 
the Copley Squar and we get our personnel works out from behind the brickworks 
behind the bush by the hot blowergrate where we stash our works and were' eggerly 
into the first bundle and were' cooking up and notice Poor Tony doesnt' the least bitch 
when yrstruly and C tie off first in line seeing as were' the ones that copped it and Poor 
Tonys' gotto wait as usal, except I notice he doesnt' bitch even a little, normally Poor 
Tony keeps up this usal wine yrstruly learned how to not notice, but when he doesnt' 
wine now that were' jonesing and the skeets' right there I notice hes' cusually looking 
like every place but at the skeet which is unusal and C jonesing and with the Shivers 
cooking up tryng to keep his lighter lit in the hot airs' wind and snow of nite, and I admit 
it yrstruly I get a wicked cold inside feeling even with all this hot air from the 
blowergrate blowing up from under us and making our hair blow around and Tonys' 
feather snake pernt upword I yrstruly get a cold feeling of super station once more, you 
get wicked super stations in this fucked up kindof shit life because its' a never ending 
chase and you get too tired to go by much more than never ending habit and super 
station and everything like that so but I dont' say any thing but yrstruly I have a cold 
super station about Poor Tony not wining while he makes like he has to cusually piss and 
takes a piss and the piss steams up around the lower ares of the bush with his back 
turned away and isnt' looking around with interst or anything like that you never turn 
your back on the skeet when its' partly your skeet which is wicked unusal which C is so 
eggerly dopesick he doesnt' notice any thing past keeping the lighter lit. And so I admit it 
I yrstruly did yrstruly purplously let C tie off and boot up first while I still cooked up, I did 
cook up unusally slow, fucking with the getting the snowmelt hot in the spoon and 
everything like that yrstruly I let the lighter go out and took more time with the cotton 
and C had the Shivers wurst of us and cooks up the fastest and would of got it anyway. 
Later with Cs' map elemonaded Poor Tony later conceited admitting Susan T. Cheese 



helped a Worcester fag get over on Wo for a fronted bundle in autum is why. And all 
three bundles Wo give us in slope news was Hotshots. Laced. It started the instantly C 
undid the belt and booted up we knew allready, yrstruly I and PT thearized it was Drano 
with the blue like glittershit and everything like that taken out by subservant slopes it 
had that Drano like effect on C and everything like that it was laced what ever it was C 
started with the screaming in a loud hipitch fashion instantly after he unties and boots 
and downhegoes flopping with his heels pouning on the metal of the blower-grate and 
hes' at his throat with his hands tearing at him self in the most fucked up fashions and 
Poor Tony is hiheeling rickytick over over C zipping up sayng he screams sweety C but 
and stuffing the feather snake from his necks' head in Cs' mouth to shut him up from 
hipitch screaming in case Bostons' Finest can hear involvment and blood and bloody 
materil is coming out Cs' mouth and Cs' nose and its' allover the feathers its' a sure sign 
of Drano, blood is and Cs' eyes get beesly and bulge and hes' cryng blood into the 
feathers in his mouth and tryng to hold onto my glove but Cs' arms are going allover and 
one eye it like allofa sudden pops outof his map, like with a Pop you make with fingers in 
your mouth with all this blood and materil and a blue string at the back of the eye and 
the eye falls over the side of Cs' map and hangs there looking at the fag Poor Tony. And 
C turned lightblue and bit thru the snakes' head and died for keeps and shit his pants 
instanly with shit so bad the hot air blowergrate is blowing small bits of fart and blood 
and missty shit up into our maps and Poor Tony backs offof over C and puts his hands 
over his madeup map and looks at C thru his fingers. And yrstruly I take the belt off it 
goes without saying, and dont' even rethink or dream about tryng maybe a diffrent bag 
out of a diffrent bundle from C for how could Wo know what bundle wed' cook up outof 
first so all three bundles must be Hot so I dont' even dream even tho yrstrulys' Shiverng 
and muds sick allready and now in payback Wo has our only $ to get straight with for 
XMas. It might sound fucking low but the reason we had to leave the decesed body C in 
one of the librarys' dumsters is the reason is because the Copley Squars' Finest know it 
is our personnel hot air blowergrate and if we leave C there its' a sure pinch for us as 
known aquaintance and a period of Kicking The Bird in holding in a cell but the dumster 
was empty of materil and Cs' head made a fucked up sound when it hit the empty 
bottom and Poor Tony cried and wined and said he said he had no inkling that beast Wo 
was that vindicative and poorold decesed C and how this was it hes' going to get clean 
from heronout and get a straightjob dancing in a Patty type Club in the Fenway and 
everything like that on and on piss and wine. I didnt' say any thing. I had to rethink on 
the T to the Squar if yrstruly I should elemonade Poor Tonys' map for keeps for payback 
on how he purplously lets C shoot up first and wouldof let yrstruly shoot first even 
knowing, or make that cheese move and go back down the Orangeline to Wo and try 
and get enough bags to get true straight eating cheese to Wo about the wherehouse 
that Poor Tony and Susan T. Cheese and Lolasister with Eckwus crashed at now. Or like 
what. Yrstruly I almost was cryng. It was when Poor Tony took off his hiheels and 
wanted yrstruly I should boost him like over the edge of Cs' bodies' dumster to get back 
what was left of his feather stoal out of Cs' mouth that yrstruly I thought I decided what 
to do. But the connected slope Wo wasnt' even there in front of the Hung Toys curtain 
in the early XMas AM, and then Poor Tony departed for green pastures and ate cheese. 



and it took yrstruly two days of Kicking The Bird in the hall out side my Mumsters 1 
apartment that for payback she locked the door before I yrstruly can get in a Detox to 
atleast cop some methedoan and get three squars to stay down in yrstruly to start to 
thearize on what to try and do after I could standup straight and walk upright again 
once more. 


3 NOVEMBER Y.D.A.U. 


Hal could hear the phone console ringing as he dropped his gear bag and took the 
room key from around his neck. The phone itself had been Orin's and its plastic case was 
transparent and you could see the phone's guts. 

'Mmyellow.' 

'Why do I always get the feeling I'm interrupting you in the middle of some like 
vigorous self-abuse session?' It was Orin's voice. 'It's always multiple rings. Then you're 
always a little breathless when you do.' 

'Do what.' 

'A certain sweaty urgency to your voice. Are you one of the 99% of adolescent males, 
Hallie?' 

Hal never liked talking on the phone after he'd gotten high in secret down in the Pump 
Room. Even if there was water or liquid handy to keep the cotton at bay. He didn't know 
why this was so. It just made him uneasy. 

'You're sounding hale and fit, 0.' 

'You can tell me, you know. No shame in it. Let me tell you, boy, I did myself raw for 
years on end on that hill.' 

Hal estimated over 60% of what he told Orin on the phone since Orin had abruptly 
started calling again this spring was a lie. He had no idea why he liked lying to Orin on 
the phone so much. He looked at the clock. 'Where are you?' 

'Home. Snug and toasty. It's 90+ out.' 

'That would be Fahrenheit I'm assuming.' 

'This city is made of all glass and light. The windows are like high-beams coming at 
you. The air has that spilled-fuel shimmer to it.' 

'So to what do we owe.' 

'Sometimes I wear sunglasses even in the house. Sometimes at the stadium I hold my 
hand up and look at it and I swear I can see right through it. Like that thing with the 
flashlight and your hand.' 

'Hands seem to be sort of a theme to this call, thus far.' 



'On the way in from the lot off the street here I saw a pedestrian in a pith helmet 
stagger and like claw at the air and pitch forward onto his face. Another Phoenician 
felled by the heat I think to myself.' 

It occurred to Hal that although he lied about meaningless details to Orin on the 
phone it had never occurred to him to consider whether Orin was ever doing the same 
thing. This induced a spell of involuted marijuana-type thinking that led quickly, again, 
to Hal's questioning whether or not he was really all that intelligent. 'SATs are six weeks 
away and Pemulis is less and less helpful on the math, if you want to know what I'm 
doing all day.' 

'The man's face made a sizzling noise when it hit the pavement. Like bacon-caliber 
sizzling. He's still lying there, I see out the window. He's not moving anymore. 
Everyone's avoiding him, going around him. He looks too hot to touch. A little Hispanic 
kid made off with his hat. Have y'all had snow yet? Describe snow for me again, Hallie, 
I'm begging you.' 

'So you go around with this image of me sitting around during the day masturbating, is 
what you're saying.' 

'I've actually been thinking of maneuvering for the whole Kleenex concession at E.T.A., 
as a venture.' 

'That of course would mean actually contacting C.T. and the Moms.' 

'Me and this forward-looking reserve QB have been making inquiries. 

Putting out feelers. Volume discounts, preferred-vendor status. Maybe a sideline in 
unscented lubricants. Any thoughts?' 

' 0 .?' 

'I'm sitting here actually missing New Orleans, kid. It'd be just coming up on Advent I 
think. The Quarter always gets really quaint and demure during Advent. It almost never 
rains down there during Advent for some reason. People remark on it, the phenomena.' 

'You sound somehow a little off to me, 0.' 

'I'm heat-crazed. I might be dehydrated. What's that word? Everything's looked all 
beige and powdery all day. Trash bags have been swelling up and spontaneously 
combusting out in the dumpsters. These sudden rains of coffee grounds and orange 
peels. The Displacement guys in the barges have to wear asbestos gloves. Also I met 
somebody. Hallie, a possibly very special somebody.' 

'Uh oh. Dinnertime. Triangle's a-clangin' over in West.' 

'Hey Haliie though? Hang on. Kidding aside for a second. What all do you know about 
Separatism?' 

Hal stopped for a moment. 'You mean in Canada?' 

'Is there any other kind?' 


Ennet House Drug and Alcohol Recovery House 49 was founded in the Year of the 
Whopper by a nail-tough old chronic drug addict and alcoholic who had spent the bulk 
of his adult life under the supervision of the Massachusetts Department of Corrections 
before discovering the fellowship of Alcoholics Anonymous at M.D.C.-Walpole and 
undergoing a sudden experience of total self-surrender and spiritual awakening in the 



shower during his fourth month of continuous AA sobriety. This recovered addict/ 
alcoholic — who in his new humility so valued AA's tradition of anonymity that he 
refused even to use his first name, and was known in Boston AA simply as the Guy Who 
Didn't Even Use His First Name — opened Ennet House within a year of his parole, 
determined to pass on to other chronic drug addicts and alcoholics what had been so 
freely given to him in the E-Tier shower. 

Ennet House leases a former physicians' dormitory in the Enfield Marine Public Health 
Hospital Complex, managed by the United States Veterans Administration. Ennet House 
is equipped to provide 22 male and female clients a nine-month period of closely 
supervised residency and treatment. 

Ennet House was not only founded but originally renovated, furnished, and decorated 
by the nameless local AA ex-con, who — since sobriety doesn't exactly mean instant 
sainthood — used to lead select teams of early-recovery dope fiends on after-hours 
boosting expeditions at area furniture and housewares establishments. 

This legendary anonymous founder was an extremely tough old Boston AA galoot who 
believed passionately that everyone, no matter how broad the trail of slime they 
dragged in behind them, deserved the same chance at sobriety through utterly total 
surrender he'd been granted. It's a kind of extremely tough love found almost 
exclusively in tough old Boston galoots. 50 He sometimes, the founder, in the House's 
early days, required incoming residents to attempt to eat rocks — as in like rocks from 
the ground — to demonstrate their willingness to go to any lengths for the gift of 
sobriety. The Massachusetts Department of Public Health's Division of Substance Abuse 
Services eventually requested that this practice be discontinued. 

Ennet was not any part of the nameless Ennet House founder's name, by the way. 

The rock thing — which has become a grim bit of mythopoeia now trotted out to 
illustrate how cushy the present Ennet residents have it — was probably not as whacko 
as it seemed to Division of S.A.S., since many of the things veteran AA's ask newcomers 
to do and believe seem not much less whacko than trying to chew feldspar. E.g. be so 
strung out you can feel your pulse in your eyeballs, have the shakes so badly you make a 
spatter-painting on the wall every time somebody hands you a cup of coffee, have the 
life-forms out of the corner of your eye be your only distraction from the chainsaw¬ 
racing chatter in your head, sitting there, and have some old lady with cat-hair on her 
nylons come at you to hug you and tell you to make a list of all the things you're grateful 
for today: you'll wish you had some feldspar handy, too. 

In the Year of the Yushityu 2007 Mimetic-Resolution-Cartridge-View-Motherboard- 
Easy-To-lnstall Upgrade For Infernatron/InterLace TP Systems For Home, Office Or 
Mobile, 51 the nameless founder's death of a cerebral hemorrhage at age sixty-eight 
went unremarked outside the Boston AA community. 


FROM INTERNAL INTERLACE-SYSTEM E-MAIL MEMO 

CAH-NNE22-3575634-22, CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT HEADQUARTERS, STATE FARM 
INSURANCE COMPANIES, INC., BLOOMINGTON IL 26 JUNE 
YEAR OF DAIRY PRODUCTS FROM THE AMERICAN HEARTLAND 



FROM: murrayf @clmshqnne22.626INTCOM TO: powellg/sanchezm/parryk @ 
clmhqnne.626INTCOM 

MESSAGE: guys, get a load, my def. of a bad day. metro boston region 22 this spring, 
comp claim, witnesses deposed by boston wrkmans comp, establish claimant Impaired 
and the emerg. Room rept. lists a blood-alcohol of .3+, so be pleased to know we're 
clear on the 357-5 liability end. but basic facts below confirmed by witnesses and CYD 
accident rept. here's just the first page, get a load: 

murrayf ©clmshqnne22.626INTCOM 626YDPAH0112317/p. 1 
Dwayne R. Glynn 
176 N. Faneuil Blvd. 

Stoneham, Mass. 021808754/4 
June 21, YODPFTAH 
Workmans Accident Claims Office 
State Farm Insurance 
1 State Farm Plaza 
Normal, III. 617062262/6 
Dear Sir: 

I am writing in response to your request for additional information. In block #3 of the 
accident reporting form, I put "trying to do the job alone", as the cause of my accident. 
You said in your letter that I should explain more fully and I trust that the following 
details will be sufficient. 

I am a bricklayer by trade. On the day of the accident, March 27, I was working alone 
on the roof of a new six story building. When I completed my work, I discovered that I 
had about 900 kg. of brick left over. Rather than laboriously carry the bricks down by 
hand, I decided to lower them in a barrel by using a pulley which fortunately was 
attached to the side of the building at the sixth floor. Securing the rope at ground level, I 
went up to the roof, swung the barrel out and loaded the brick into it. Then I went back 
to the ground and untied the rope, holding it tightly to insure a slow descent of the 900 
kg of bricks. You will note in block #11 of the accident reporting form that I weigh 75 kg. 

Due to my surprise at being jerked off the ground so suddenly, I lost my presence of 
mind and forgot to let go of the rope. Needless to say, I proceeded at a rapid rate up the 
side of the building. In the vicinity of the third floor I met the barrel coming down. This 
explains the fractured skull and the broken collar bone. 

Slowed only slightly, I continued my rapid ascent not stopping until the fingers of my 
right hand were two knuckles deep into the pulleys. Fortunately, by this time, I had 
regained my presence of mind, and was able to hold tightly to the rope in spite of 
considerable pain. At approximately the same time, however, the barrel of bricks hit the 
ground and the bottom fell out of the barrel from the force of hitting the ground. 

Devoid of the weight of the bricks, the barrel now weighed approximately 30 kg. I 
refer you again to my weight of 75 kg in block #11. As you could imagine, still holding 
the rope, I began a rather rapid descent from the pulley down the side of the building. In 
the vicinity of the third floor, I met the barrel coming up. This accounts for the two 



fractured ankles and the laceration of my legs and lower body. 

The encounter with the barrel slowed me enough to lessen my impact with the brick- 
strewn ground below. I am sorry to report, however, that as I lay there on the bricks in 
considerable pain, unable to stand or move and watching the empty barrel six stories 
above me, I again lost my presence of mind and unfortunately let go of the rope, 
causing the barrel to begin a 
endtranslNTCOM626 


HAL INCANDENZA'S FIRST EXTANT WRITTEN COMMENT ON ANYTHING EVEN 
REMOTELY FILMIC, SUBMITTED IN MR. OGILVIE'S SEVENTH-GRADE 'INTRODUCTION to 
ENTERTAINMENT STUDIES' (2 TERMS, REQUIRED), ENFIELD TENNIS ACADEMY, 21 
FEBRUARY IN THE YEAR OF THE PERDUE WONDERCHICKEN, @ FOUR YEARS AFTER THE 
DEMISE OF BROADCAST TELEVISION, ONE YEAR AFTER DR. JAMES 0. INCANDENZA 
PASSED FROM THIS LIFE, A SUBMISSION RECEIVING JUST A B/B+, DESPITE OVERALL 
POSITIVE FEEDBACK, MOSTLY BECAUSE ITS CONCLUDING H WAS NEITHER SET UP BY THE 
ESSAY'S BODY NOR SUPPORTED, OGILVIE POINTED OUT, BY ANYTHING MORE THAN 
SUBJECTIVE INTUITION AND RHETORICAL FLOURISH. 

Chief Steve McGarrett of ’Hawaii Five-0 1 and Captain Frank Furillo of 'Hill Street Blues' 
are useful for seeing how our North American idea of the hero changed from the B.S. 
1970s era of 'Hawaii Five-0' to the B.S. 1980s era of 'Hill Street Blues.' 

Chief Steve McGarrett is a classically modern hero of action. He acts out. It is what he 
does. The camera is always on him. He is hardly ever offscreen. He has just one case per 
week. The audience knows what the case is and also knows, by the end of Act One, who 
is guilty. Because the audience knows the truth before Steve McGarrett does, there is 
no mystery, there is only Steve McGarrett. The drama of 'Hawaii Five-0' is watching the 
hero in action, watching Steve McGarrett stalk and strut, homing in on the truth. 
Homing in is the essence of what the classic hero of modern action does. 

Steve McGarrett is not weighed down by administrative State-Police-Chief chores, or 
by females, or friends, or emotions, or any sorts of conflicting demands on his attention. 
His field of action is bare of diverting clutter. Thus Chief Steve McGarrett single- 
mindedly acts to refashion a truth the audience already knows into an object of law, 
justice, modern heroism. 

In contrast. Captain Frank Furillo is what used to be designated a 'post'-modern hero. 
Viz., a hero whose virtues are suited to a more complex and corporate American era. 
I.e., a hero of reaction. Captain Frank Furillo does not investigate cases or single- 
mindedly home in. He commands a precinct. He is a bureaucrat, and his heroism is 
bureaucratic, with a genius for navigating cluttered fields. In each broadcast episode of 
'Hill Street Blues,' Captain Frank Furillo is beset by petty distractions on all sides from 
the very beginning of Act One. Not one but eleven complex cases, each with suspects 
and snitches and investigating officers and angry community leaders and victims' 
families all clamoring for redress. Hundreds of tasks to delegate, egos to massage, 
promises to make, promises from last week to keep. Two or three cops' domestic 
troubles. Payroll vouchers. Duty logs. Corruption to be tempted by and agonized over. A 


Police Chief who's a political parody, a hyperactive son, an ex-wife who haunts the 
frosted-glass cubicle that serves as Frank Furillo's office (whereas Steve McGarrett's B.S. 
1970s office more closely resembled the libraries of landed gentry, hushed behind two 
heavy doors and wainscotted in thick, tropical oak), plus a coldly attractive Public 
Defendress who wants to talk about did this suspect get Mirandized in Spanish and can 
Frank stop coming too soon he came too soon again last night maybe he should get into 
some kind of stress counselling. Plus all the weekly moral dilemmas and double binds his 
even-handed bureaucratic heroism gets Captain Frank Furillo into. 

Captain Frank Furillo of 'Hill Street Blues' is a 'post'-modern hero, a virtuoso of triage 
and compromise and administration. Frank Furillo retains his sanity, composure, and 
superior grooming in the face of a barrage of distracting, unheroic demands that would 
have left Chief Steve McGarrett slumped, unkempt, and chewing his knuckle in 
administrative confusion. 

In further contrast to Chief Steve McGarrett, Captain Frank Furillo is rarely filmed tight 
or full-front. Fie is usually one part of a frenetic, moving pan by the program's camera. In 
contrast, 'Hawaii Five-0' 's camera crew never even used a dolly, favoring a steady 
tripodic close-up on McGarrett's face that today seems more reminiscent of romantic 
portraiture than filmed drama. 

What kind of hero comes after McGarrett's Irishized modern cowboy, the lone man of 
action riding lonely herd in paradise? Furillo's is a whole different kind of loneliness. The 
'post'-modern hero was a heroic part of the herd, responsible for all of what he is part 
of, responsible to everyone, his lonely face as placid under pressure as a cow's face. The 
jut-jawed hero of action ('Hawaii Five-0') becomes the mild-eyed hero of reaction ('Hill 
Street Blues,' a decade later). 

And, as we have observed thus far in our class, we, as a North American audience, 
have favored the more Stoic, corporate hero of reactive probity ever since, some might 
be led to argue 'trapped' in the reactive moral ambiguity of 'post-' and 'post-post'- 
modern culture. 

But what comes next? What North American hero can hope to succeed the placid 
Frank? We await, I predict, the hero of non- action, the catatonic hero, the one beyond 
calm, divorced from all stimulus, carried here and there across sets by burly extras 
whose blood sings with retrograde amines. 


ENORMOUS, ELECTROLYSIS-RASHED 'JOURNALIST' 'HELEN' STEEPLY'S ONLY PUTATIVE 
PUBLISHED ARTICLE BEFORE BEGINNING HER SOFT PROFILE ON PHOENIX CARDINALS 
PUNTER ORIN J. INCANDENZA, AND HER ONLY PUTATIVE PUBLISHED ARTICLE TO HAVE 
ANYTHING OVERTLY TO DO WITH GOOD OLD METROPOLITAN BOSTON, 10 AUGUST IN 
THE YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT, FOUR YEARS AFTER OPTICAL 
THEORIST, ENTREPRENEUR, TENNIS ACADEMICIAN, AND AVANT-GARDE FILMMAKER 
JAMES 0. INCANDENZA TOOK HIS OWN LIFE BY PUTTING HIS HEAD IN A MICROWAVE 
OVEN 

Moment Magazine has learned that the tragic fate of the second North American 
citizen to receive a Jarvik IX Exterior Artificial Heart has, sadly, been kept from the North 



American people. The woman, a 46-year-old Boston accountant with irreversible 
restenosis of the heart, responded so well to the replacement of her defective heart 
with a Jarvik IX Exterior Artificial Heart that within weeks she was able to resume the 
active lifestyle she had so enjoyed before stricken, pursuing her active schedule with the 
extraordinary prosthesis portably installed in a stylish Etienne Aigner purse. The heart's 
ventricular tubes ran up to shunts in the woman's arms and ferried life-giving blood 
back and forth between her living, active body and the extraordinary heart in her purse. 

Her tragic, untimely, and, some might say, cruelly ironic fate, however, has been the 
subject of the all too frequent silence needless tragedies are buried beneath when they 
cast the callous misunderstanding of public officials in the negative light of public 
knowledge. It took the sort of searching and fearless journalistic doggedness readers 
have come to respect in Moment to unearth the tragically negative facts of her fate. 

The 46-year-old recipient of the Jarvik IX Exterior Artificial Heart was actively window 
shopping in Cambridge, Massachusetts' fashionable Harvard Square when a transvestite 
purse snatcher, a drug addict with a criminal record all too well known to public officials, 
bizarrely outfitted in a strapless cocktail dress, spike heels, tattered feather boa, and 
auburn wig, brutally tore the life sustaining purse from the woman's unwitting grasp. 

The active, alert woman gave chase to the purse snatching 'woman' for as long as she 
could, plaintively shouting to passers by the words 'Stop her! She stole my heart!' on the 
fashionable sidewalk crowded with shoppers, reportedly shouting repeatedly, 'She stole 
my heart, stop her!' In response to her plaintive calls, tragically, misunderstanding 
shoppers and passers by merely shook their heads at one another, smiling knowingly at 
what they ignorantly presumed to be yet another alternative lifestyle's relationship 
gone sour. A duo of Cambridge, Massachusetts, patrolmen, whose names are being 
withheld from Moment's dogged queries, were publicly heard to passively quip, 
'Happens all the time,' as the victimized woman staggered frantically past in the wake of 
the fleet transvestite, shouting for help for her stolen heart. 

That the prosthetic crime victim gave spirited chase for over four blocks before 
collapsing onto her empty chest is testimony to the impressive capacity of the Jarvik IX 
replacement procedure, was the anonymous comment of a public medical official 
reached for comment by Moment. 

The drug crazed purse snatcher, informed officials passively speculated, may have 
found even his hardened conscience moved by the life saving prosthesis the ill gotten 
woman's Aigner purse revealed, which runs on the same rechargeable power cell as an 
electric man's razor, and may well have continued to beat and bleed for a period of time 
in the rudely disconnected purse. The purse snatcher's response to this conscience 
appears to have been cruelly striking the Jarvik IX Exterior Artificial Heart repeatedly 
with a stone or small hammer-like tool, where its remains were found some hours later 
behind the historic Boston Public Library in fashionable Copley Square. 

Is medical science's awe inspiring march forward, however, always doomed to include 
such tragic incidents of ignorance and callous loss, one might ask. Such seems to be the 
stance of North American officials. If indeed so, the victims' fate is frequently kept from 
the light of public knowledge. 

And the facts of the case's outcome? The 46-year-old deceased woman's formerly 



active, alert brain was removed and dissected six weeks later by a Brigham and 
Women's City of Boston Hospital medical student reportedly so moved by her terse toe 
tag's account of the victim's heartless fate that he confessed to Moment a temporary 
inability to physically wield the power saw of his assigned task. 


ALPHABETICAL TALLY OF SEPARATISTEUR / ANTI-O.N.A.N. GROUPS WHOSE 
OPPOSITION TO INTERDEPENDENCE / RECONFIGURATION is DESIGNATED BY R.C.M.P. 
AND U.S.O.U.S. AS TERRORIST / EXTORTIONIST IN CHARACTER 
(Q=Quebecois, E=Environmental, S=Separatist, V=Violent, W=Extremely Violent) 

— Les Assassins des Fauteuils Rollents (Q, S, W) 

— Le Bloc Quebecois (Q, S, E) 

— Calgarian Pro-Canadian Phalanx (E, V) 

— Les Fils de Montcalm (Q, E) 

— Les Fils de Papineau (Q, S, V) 

— Le Front de la Liberation de la Quebec (Q, S, W) 

— Le Parti Quebecois (Q, S, E) 


WHY - THOUGH IN THE EARLY DAYS OF INTERLACE'S INTERNETTED TELEPUTERS 
THAT OPERATED OFF LARGELY THE SAME FIBER-DIGITAL GRID AS THE PHONE 
COMPANIES, THE ADVENT OF VIDEO-TELEPHONING (A.K.A. 'VIDEOPHONY') ENJOYED AN 
INTERVAL OF HUGE CONSUMER POPULARITY - CALLERS THRILLED AT THE IDEA OF 
PHONE-INTERFACING BOTH AURALLY AND FACIALLY (THE LITTLE FIRST-GENERATION 
PHONE-VIDEO CAMERAS BEING TOO CRUDE AND NARROW-APERTURED FOR ANYTHING 
MUCH MORE THAN FACIAL CLOSE-UPS) ON FIRST-GENERATION TELEPUTERS THAT AT 
THAT TIME WERE LITTLE MORE THAN HIGH-TECH TV SETS, THOUGH OF COURSE THEY 
HAD THAT LITTLE 'INTELLIGENT-AGENT' HOMUNCULAR ICON THAT WOULD APPEAR AT 
THE LOWER-RIGHT OF A BROADCAST/CABLE PROGRAM AND TELL YOU THE TIME AND 
TEMPERATURE OUTSIDE OR REMIND YOU TO TAKE YOUR BLOOD-PRESSURE 
MEDICATION OR ALERT YOU TO A PARTICULARLY COMPELLING ENTERTAINMENT- 
OPTION NOW COMING UP ON CHANNEL LIKE 491 OR SOMETHING, OR OF COURSE NOW 
ALERTING YOU TO AN INCOMING VIDEO-PHONE CALL AND THEN TAP-DANCING WITH A 
LITTLE ICONIC STRAW BOATER AND CANE JUST UNDER A MENU OF POSSIBLE OPTIONS 
FOR RESPONSE, AND CALLERS DID LOVE THEIR LITTLE HOMUNCULAR ICONS - BUT 
WHY, WITHIN LIKE 16 MONTHS OR 5 SALES QUARTERS, THE TUMESCENT DEMAND 
CURVE FOR 'VIDEOPHONY' SUDDENLY COLLAPSED LIKE A KICKED TENT, SO THAT, BY THE 
YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT, FEWER THAN 10% OF ALL PRIVATE 
TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS UTILIZED ANY VIDEO-IMAGE-FIBER DATA-TRANSFERS 
OR COINCIDENT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, THE AVERAGE U.S. PHONE-USER DECIDING 
THAT S/HE ACTUALLY PREFERRED THE RETROGRADE OLD LOW-TECH BELL-ERA VOICE- 
ONLY TELEPHONIC INTERFACE AFTER ALL, A PREFERENTIAL ABOUT-FACE THAT COST A 
GOOD MANY PRECIPITANT VIDEO-TELEPHONY-RELATED ENTREPRENEURS THEIR SHIRTS, 
PLUS DESTABILIZING TWO HIGHLY RESPECTED MUTUAL FUNDS THAT HAD GROUND- 



FLOORED HEAVILY IN VIDEO-PHONE TECHNOLOGY, AND VERY NEARLY WIPING OUT THE 
MARYLAND STATE EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM'S FREDDIE-MAC FUND, A FUND 
WHOSE ADMINISTRATOR'S MISTRESS'S BROTHER HAD BEEN AN ALMOST MANICALLY 
PRECIPITANT VIDEO-PHONE-TECHNOLOGY ENTREPRENEUR... AND BUT SO WHY THE 
ABRUPT CONSUMER RETREAT BACK TO GOOD OLD VOICE-ONLY TELEPHONING? 

The answer, in a kind of trivalent nutshell, is: (1) emotional stress, (2) physical vanity, 
(3) a certain queer kind of self-obliterating logic in the microeconomics of consumer 
high-tech. 

(1) It turned out that there was something terribly stressful about visual telephone 
interfaces that hadn't been stressful at all about voice-only interfaces. Videophone 
consumers seemed suddenly to realize that they'd been subject to an insidious but 
wholly marvelous delusion about conventional voice-only telephony. They'd never 
noticed it before, the delusion — it's like it was so emotionally complex that it could be 
countenanced only in the context of its loss. Good old traditional audio-only phone 
conversations allowed you to presume that the person on the other end was paying 
complete attention to you while also permitting you not to have to pay anything even 
close to complete attention to her. A traditional aural-only conversation — utilizing a 
hand-held phone whose earpiece contained only 6 little pinholes but whose mouthpiece 
(rather significantly, it later seemed) contained (6 2 ) or 36 little pinholes — let you enter 
a kind of highway-hypnotic semi-attentive fugue: while conversing, you could look 
around the room, doodle, fine-groom, peel tiny bits of dead skin away from your 
cuticles, compose phone-pad haiku, stir things on the stove; you could even carry on a 
whole separate additional sign-language-and-exaggerated-facial-expression type of 
conversation with people right there in the room with you, all while seeming to be right 
there attending closely to the voice on the phone. And yet — and this was the 
retrospectively marvelous part — even as you were dividing your attention between the 
phone call and all sorts of other idle little fuguelike activities, you were somehow never 
haunted by the suspicion that the person on the other end's attention might be similarly 
divided. During a traditional call, e.g., as you let's say performed a close tactile blemish- 
scan of your chin, you were in no way oppressed by the thought that your phonemate 
was perhaps also devoting a good percentage of her attention to a close tactile blemish- 
scan. It was an illusion and the illusion was aural and aurally supported: the phone-line's 
other end's voice was dense, tightly compressed, and vectored right into your ear, 
enabling you to imagine that the voice's owner's attention was similarly compressed 
and focused... even though your own attention was not, was the thing. This bilateral 
illusion of unilateral attention was almost infantilely gratifying from an emotional 
standpoint: you got to believe you were receiving somebody's complete attention 
without having to return it. Regarded with the objectivity of hindsight, the illusion 
appears arational, almost literally fantastic: it would be like being able both to lie and to 
trust other people at the same time. 

Video telephony rendered the fantasy insupportable. Callers now found they had to 
compose the same sort of earnest, slightly overintense listener's expression they had to 
compose for in-person exchanges. Those callers who out of unconscious habit 
succumbed to fuguelike doodling or pants-crease-adjustment now came off looking 



rude, absentminded, or childishly self-absorbed. Callers who even more unconsciously 
blemish-scanned or nostril-explored looked up to find horrified expressions on the 
video-faces at the other end. All of which resulted in videophonic stress. 

Even worse, of course, was the traumatic expulsion-from-Eden feeling of looking up 
from tracing your thumb's outline on the Reminder Pad or adjusting the old Unit's angle 
of repose in your shorts and actually seeing your videophonic interfacee idly strip a 
shoelace of its gumlet as she talked to you, and suddenly realizing your whole infantile 
fantasy of commanding your partner's attention while you yourself got to fugue-doodle 
and make little genital-adjustments was deluded and insupportable and that you were 
actually commanding not one bit more attention than you were paying, here. The whole 
attention business was monstrously stressful, video callers found. 

(2) And the videophonic stress was even worse if you were at all vain. I.e. if you 
worried at all about how you looked. As in to other people. Which all kidding aside who 
doesn't. Good old aural telephone calls could be fielded without makeup, toupee, 
surgical prostheses, etc. Even without clothes, if that sort of thing rattled your saber. 
But for the image-conscious, there was of course no such answer-as-you-are informality 
about visual-video telephone calls, which consumers began to see were less like having 
the good old phone ring than having the doorbell ring and having to throw on clothes 
and attach prostheses and do hair-checks in the foyer mirror before answering the door. 

But the real coffin-nail for videophony involved the way callers' faces looked on their 
TP screen, during calls. Not their callers' faces, but their own, when they saw them on 
video. It was a three-button affair: after all, to use the TP's cartridge-card's Video- 
Record option to record both pulses in a two-way visual call and play the call back and 
see how your face had actually looked to the other person during the call. This sort of 
appearance-check was no more resistible than a mirror. But the experience proved al¬ 
most universally horrifying. People were horrified at how their own faces appeared on a 
TP screen. It wasn't just 'Anchorman's Bloat,' that well-known impression of extra 
weight that video inflicts on the face. It was worse. Even with high-end TPs' high-def 
viewer-screens, consumers perceived something essentially blurred and moist-looking 
about their phone-faces, a shiny pallid indefiniteness that struck them as not just 
unflattering but somehow evasive, furtive, untrustworthy, unlikable. In an early and 
ominous InterLace/G.T.E. focus-group survey that was all but ignored in a storm of 
entrepreneurial sci-fi-tech enthusiasm, almost 60% of respondents who received visual 
access to their own faces during videophonic calls specifically used the terms 
untrustworthy, unlikable, or hard to like in describing their own visage's appearance, 
with a phenomenally ominous 71 % of senior-citizen respondents specifically comparing 
their video-faces to that of Richard Nixon during the Nixon-Kennedy debates of B.S. 
1960. 

The proposed solution to what the telecommunications industry's psychological 
consultants termed Video-Physiognomic Dysphoria (or l /PD) was, of course, the advent 
of High-Definition Masking; and in fact it was those entrepreneurs who gravitated 
toward the production of high-definition videophonic imaging and then outright masks 
who got in and out of the short-lived videophonic era with their shirts plus solid addi¬ 
tional nets. 



Mask-wise, the initial option of High-Definition Photographic Imaging — i.e. taking the 
most flattering elements of a variety of flattering multi-angle photos of a given phone- 
consumer and — thanks to existing image-configuration equipment already pioneered 
by the cosmetics and law-enforcement industries — combining them into a wildly 
attractive high-def broadcastable composite of a face wearing an earnest, slightly 
overintense expression of complete attention — was quickly supplanted by the more 
inexpensive and byte-economical option of (using the exact same cosmetic-and-FBI 
software) actually casting the enhanced facial image in a form-fitting polybutylene-resin 
mask, and consumers soon found that the high up-front cost of a permanent wearable 
mask was more than worth it, considering the stress- and VFD-reduction benefits, and 
the convenient Velcro straps for the back of the mask and caller's head cost peanuts; 
and for a couple fiscal quarters phone/cable companies were able to rally l/PD-afflicted 
consumers' confidence by working out a horizontally integrated deal where free 
composite-and-masking services came with a videophone hookup. The high-def masks, 
when not in use, simply hung on a small hook on the side of a TP's phone-console, 
admittedly looking maybe a bit surreal and discomfiting when detached and hanging 
there empty and wrinkled, and sometimes there were potentially awkward mistaken- 
identity snafus involving multi-user family or company phones and the hurried selection 
and attachment of the wrong mask taken from some long row of empty hanging masks 
— but all in all the masks seemed initially like a viable industry response to the vanity, - 
stress,-and-Nixonian-facial-image problem. 

(2 and maybe also 3) But combine the natural entrepreneurial instinct to satisfy oil 
sufficiently high consumer demand, on the one hand, with what appears to be an 
almost equally natural distortion in the way persons tend to see themselves, and it 
becomes possible to account historically for the speed with which the whole high-def- 
videophonic-mask thing spiralled totally out of control. Not only is it weirdly hard to 
evaluate what you yourself look like, like whether you're good-looking or not — e.g. try 
looking in the mirror and determining where you stand in the attractiveness-hierarchy 
with anything like the objective ease you can determine whether just about anyone else 
you know is good-looking or not — but it turned out that consumers' instinctively 
skewed self-perception, plus vanity-related stress, meant that they began preferring and 
then outright demanding videophone masks that were really quite a lot better-looking 
than they themselves were in person. High-def mask-entrepreneurs ready and willing to 
supply not just verisimilitude but aesthetic enhancement — stronger chins, smaller eye- 
bags, air-brushed scars and wrinkles — soon pushed the original mimetic-mask- 
entrepreneurs right out of the market. In a gradually unsubtlizing progression, within a 
couple more sales-quarters most consumers were now using masks so undeniably 
better-looking on videophones than their real faces were in person, transmitting to one 
another such horrendously skewed and enhanced masked images of themselves, that 
enormous psychosocial stress began to result, large numbers of phone-users suddenly 
reluctant to leave home and interface personally with people who, they feared, were 
now habituated to seeing their far-better-looking masked selves on the phone and 
would on seeing them in person suffer (so went the callers' phobia) the same illusion- 
shattering aesthetic disappointment that, e.g., certain women who always wear makeup 



give people the first time they ever see them without makeup. 

The social anxieties surrounding the phenomenon psych-consultants termed 
Optimistically Misrepresentational Masking (or OMM) intensified steadily as the tiny 
crude first-generation videophone cameras' technology improved to where the aperture 
wasn't as narrow, and now the higher-end tiny cameras could countenance and transmit 
more or less full-body images. Certain psychologically unscrupulous entrepreneurs 
began marketing full-body polybutylene and -urethane 2-D cutouts — sort of like the 
headless muscleman and bathing-beauty cutouts you could stand behind and position 
your chin on the cardboard neck-stump of for cheap photos at the beach, only these 
full-body videophone-masks were vastly more high-tech and convincing-looking. Once 
you added variable 2-D wardrobe, hair- and eye-color options, various aesthetic 
enlargements and reductions, etc., costs started to press the envelope of mass-market 
affordability, even though there was at the same time horrific social pressure to be able 
to afford the very best possible masked 2-D body-image, to keep from feeling compara¬ 
tively hideous-looking on the phone. How long, then, could one expect it to have been 
before the relentless entrepreneurial drive toward an ever-better mousetrap conceived 
of the Transmittable Tableau (a.k.a. TT), which in retrospect was probably the really 
sharp business-end of the videophonic coffin-nail. With TTs, facial and bodily masking 
could now be dispensed with altogether and replaced with the video-transmitted image 
of what was essentially a heavily doctored still-photograph, one of an incredibly fit and 
attractive and well-turned-out human being, someone who actually resembled you the 
caller only in such limited respects as like race and limb-number, the photo's face 
focused attentively in the direction of the videophonic camera from amid the 
sumptuous but not ostentatious appointments of the sort of room that best reflected 
the image of yourself you wanted to transmit, etc. 

The Tableaux were simply high-quality transmission-ready photographs, scaled down 
to diorama-like proportions and fitted with a plastic holder over the videophone 
camera, not unlike a lens-cap. Extremely good-looking but not terrifically successful 
entertainment-celebrities — the same sort who in decades past would have swelled the 
cast-lists of infomercials — found themselves in demand as models for various high-end 
videophone Tableaux. 

Because they involved simple transmission-ready photography instead of computer 
imaging and enhancement, the Tableaux could be mass-produced and commensurately 
priced, and for a brief time they helped ease the tension between the high cost of 
enhanced body-masking and the monstrous aesthetic pressures videophony exerted on 
callers, not to mention also providing employment for set-designers, photographers, 
airbrushers, and infomercial-level celebrities hard-pressed by the declining fortunes of 
broadcast television advertising. 

(3) But there's some sort of revealing lesson here in the beyond-short-term viability- 
curve of advances in consumer technology. The career of videophony conforms neatly 
to this curve's classically annular shape: First there's some sort of terrific, sci-fi-like 
advance in consumer tech — like from aural to video phoning — which advance always, 
however, has certain unforeseen disadvantages for the consumer; and then but the 
market-niches created by those disadvantages — like people's stressfully vain repulsion 



at their own videophonic appearance — are ingeniously filled via sheer entrepreneurial 
verve; and yet the very advantages of these ingenious disadvantage-compensations 
seem all too often to undercut the original high-tech advance, resulting in consumer- 
recidivism and curve-closure and massive shirt-loss for precipitant investors. In the 
present case, the stress-and-vanity-compensations 1 own evolution saw video-callers 
rejecting first their own faces and then even their own heavily masked and enhanced 
physical likenesses and finally covering the video-cameras altogether and transmitting 
attractively stylized static Tableaux to one another's TPs. And, behind these lens-cap 
dioramas and transmitted Tableaux, callers of course found that they were once again 
stresslessly invisible, unvainly makeup- and toupeeless and baggy-eyed behind their 
celebrity-dioramas, once again free — since once again unseen — to doodle, blemish- 
scan, manicure, crease-check — while on their screen, the attractive, intensely attentive 
face of the well-appointed celebrity on the other end's Tableau reassured them that 
they were the objects of a concentrated attention they themselves didn't have to exert. 

And of course but these advantages were nothing other than the once-lost and now- 
appreciated advantages of good old Bell-era blind aural-only telephoning, with its 6 and 
(6 2 ) pinholes. The only difference was that now these expensive silly unreal stylized 
Tableaux were being transmitted between TPs on high-priced video-fiber lines. How 
much time, after this realization sank in and spread among consumers (mostly via 
phone, interestingly), would any micro-econometrist expect to need to pass before 
high-tech visual videophony was mostly abandoned, then, a return to good old 
telephoning not only dictated by common consumer sense but actually after a while 
culturally approved as a kind of chic integrity, not Ludditism but a kind of retrograde 
transcendence of sci-fi-ish high-tech for its own sake, a transcendence of the vanity and 
the slavery to high-tech fashion that people view as so unattractive in one another. In 
other words a return to aural-only telephony became, at the closed curve's end, a kind 
of status-symbol of anti-vanity, such that only callers utterly lacking in self-awareness 
continued to use videophony and Tableaux, to say nothing of masks, and these tacky 
facsimile-using people became ironic cultural symbols of tacky vain slavery to corporate 
PR and high-tech novelty, became the Subsidized Era's tacky equivalents of people with 
leisure suits, black velvet paintings, sweater-vests for their poodles, electric zirconium 
jewelry, NoCoat LinguaScrapers, and c. Most communications consumers put their 
Tableaux-dioramas at the back of a knick-knack shelf and covered their cameras with 
standard black lens-caps and now used their phone consoles' little mask-hooks to hang 
these new little plasticene address-and-phone diaries specially made with a little 
receptacle at the top of the binding for convenient hanging from former mask-hooks. 
Even then, of course, the bulk of U.S. consumers remained verifiably reluctant to leave 
home and teleputer and to interface personally, though this phenomenon's endurance 
can't be attributed to the videophony-fad per se, and anyway the new panagoraphobia 
served to open huge new entrepreneurial teleputerized markets for home-shopping and 
-delivery, and didn't cause much industry concern. 


Four times per annum, in these chemically troubled times, the Organization of North 



American Nations Tennis Association's Juniors Division sends a young toxicologist with 
cornsilk hair and a smooth wide button of a nose and a blue O.N.A.N.T.A. blazer to 
collect urine samples from any student at any accredited tennis academy ranked higher 
than 64 continentally in his or her age-division. Competitive junior tennis is meant to be 
good clean fun. It's October in the Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment. An 
impressive percentage of the kids at E.T.A. are in their divisions' top 64. On urine-sample 
day, the juniors form two long lines that trail out of the locker rooms and up the stairs 
and then run agnate and coed across the E.T.A. Comm.-Ad. Bldg, lobby with its royal- 
blue shag and hardwood panelling and great glass cases of trophies and plaques. It takes 
about an hour to get from the middle of the line to your sex's locker room's stall-area, 
where either the blond young toxicologist or on the girls' side a nurse whose severe 
widow's peak tops her square face with a sort of bisected forehead dispenses a plastic 
cup with a pale-green lid and a strip of white medical tape with a name and a monthly 
ranking and 10-15-Y.D.A.U. and Enf.T.A. neatly printed in a six-pt. font. 

Probably about a fourth of the ranking players over, say, fifteen at the Enfield Tennis 
Academy cannot pass a standard North American GC/MS 52 urine scan. These, 
seventeen-year-old Michael Pemulis's nighttime customers, now become also, four 
times yearly, his daytime customers. Clean urine is ten adjusted dollars a cc. 

'Get your urine here!' Pemulis and Trevor Axford become quarterly urine vendors; 
they wear those papery oval caps ballpark-vendors wear; they spend three months 
collecting and stashing the urine of sub-ten-year-old players, warm pale innocent 
childish urine that's produced in needly little streams and the only G/M scan it couldn't 
pass would be like an Ovaltine scan or something; then every third month Pemulis and 
Axford work the agnate unsupervised line that snakes across the blue lobby shag, selling 
little Visine bottles of urine out of an antique vendor's tub for ballpark wieners, snagged 
for a song from a Fenway Park wienerman fallen on hard offseason times, a big old box 
of dull dimpled tin with a strap in Sox colors that goes around the back of the neck and 
keeps the vendor's hands free to make change. 

'Urine!' 

'Clinically sterile urine!' 

'Piping hot!' 

'Urine you'd be proud to take home and introduce to the folks!' 

Trevor Axford handles cash-flow. Pemulis dispenses little conical-tipped Visine bottles 
of juvenile urine, bottles easily rendered discreet in underarm, sock or panty. 

'Urine trouble? Urine luck!' 

Quarterly sales breakdowns indicate slightly more male customers than female 
customers, for urine. Tomorrow morning, E.T.A. custodial workers — Kenkle and Brandt, 
or Dave ('Fall Down Very') Flarde, the well-loved old janitor laid off from Boston College 
for contracting narcolepsy, or thick-ankled Irish women from the semi-tenements down 
the hill across Comm. Ave., or else sullen and shifty-eyed residents from Ennet Flouse, 
the halfway facility at the bottom of the hill's other side in the old VA HospitaI complex, 
hard-looking and generally sullen types who come and do nine months of menial-type 
work for the 32 hours a week their treatment-contract requires — will empty scores of 
little empty plastic Visine bottles from subdorm wastebaskets into the dumpster-nest 



behind the E.T.A. Employee parking lot, from which dumpsters Pemulis will then get 
Mario Incandenza and some of the nai'ver of the original ephebic urine-donators 
themselves to remove, sterilize, and rebox the bottles under the guise of a rousing game 
of Who-Can-Find,-Boil,-And-Box-The-Most-Empty-Visine-Bottles-ln-A-Three-Hour- 

Period-Without-Any-Kind-Of-Authority-Figure-Knowing-What-You're-Up-To, a game 
which Mario had found thumpingly weird when Pemulis introduced him to it three years 
ago, but which Mario's really come to look forward to, since he's found he has a real 
sort of mystical intuitive knack for finding Visine bottles in the sedimentary layers of 
packed dumpsters, and always seems to win hands-down, and if you're poor old Mario 
Incandenza you take your competitive strokes where you can find them. T. Axford then 
stashes and recycles the bottles, and packaging overhead is nil. He and Pemulis keep the 
wiener-tub stashed under a discarded Yarmouth sail in the back of the used tow truck 
they'd chipped in on with Hal and Jim Struck and another guy who's since graduated 
E.T.A. and now plays for Pepperdine, and paid to have reconditioned and the rusty chain 
and hook that hung from the tow truck's back-tilted derrick replaced with a gleamingly 
new chain and thick hook — which get used really only twice a year, spring and late fall, 
for brief intervals of short-distance hauling during the all-weather Lung's dismantling 
and erection, plus occasionally pulling a paralyzed rear-wheel-drive student or employee 
vehicle either back onto or all the way up the E.T.A. hillside's long 70° driveway during 
bad snowstorms — and the whole thing derusted and painted in E.T.A.'s proud red and 
gray school colors, with the complex O.N.A.N. heraldic ensign — a snarling full-front 
eagle with a broom and can of disinfectant in one claw and a Maple Leaf in the other 
and wearing a sombrero and appearing to have about half-eaten a swatch of star- 
studded cloth — rather ironically silk-screened onto the driver's-side door and the good 
old pre-Tavis E.T.A. traditional motto TE OCCIDERE POSSUNT... unironically emblazoned 
on the passenger door, and which they all share use of, though Pemulis and Axford get 
slight priority, because the truck's registration and basic-liability insurance get paid for 
out of quarterly urine-revenues. 

Hal's older brother Mario — who by Dean of Students' fiat gets to bunk in a double 
with Hal in subdorm A on the third floor of Comm.-Ad. even though he's too physically 
challenged even to play low-level recreational tennis, but who's keenly interested in 
video- and film-cartridge production, and pulls his weight as part of the E.T.A. 
community recording assigned sections of matches and drills and processional stroke¬ 
filming sessions for later playback and analysis by Schtitt and his staff — is filming the 
congregated line and social interactions and vending operation of the urine-day lobby, 
using his strap-attached head-mounted camera and thoracic police-lock and foot- 
treadle, apparently getting footage for one of the short strange Himself-influenced 
conceptual cartridges the administration lets him occupy his time making and futzing 
around with down in the late founder's editing and f/x facilities off the main sub- 
Comm.-Ad. tunnel; and Pemulis and Axford do not object to the filming, nor do they 
even do that hand-to-temple face-obscuring thing when he aims the head-mounted 
Bolex their way, since they know nobody will end up seeing the footage except Mario 
himself, and that at their request he'll modulate and scramble the vendors' and 
customers' faces into undulating systems of flesh-colored squares, by means of his late 



father's reconfigururing matte-panel in the editing room, since facial scrambling will 
heighten whatever weird conceptual effect Mario's usually after anyway, though also 
because Mario's notoriously fond of undulating flesh-colored squares and will jump at 
any opportunity to edit them in over people's faces. 

They do brisk business. 

Michael Pemulis, wiry, pointy-featured, phenomenally talented at net but about two 
steps too slow to get up there effectively against high-level pace — so in compensation 
also a great offensive-lob man — is a scholarship student from right nearby in Allston 
MA — a grim section of tract housing and vacant lots, low-rise Greek and Irish housing 
projects, gravel and haphazard sewage and indifferent municipal upkeep, a lot of 
depressed petrochemical light industry all along the Spur, an outlying district zoned for 
sprawl; an old joke in Enfield-Brighton goes ' "Kiss me where it smells" she said so I took 
her to Allston' — where he discovered a knack playing Boys Club tennis in cut-off shorts 
and no shirt and a store-strung stick on scuzzy courts with blacktop that discolored your 
yellow balls and nets made of spare Feeny Park fencing that sent net-cord shots 
spronging all the way out into traffic. An Inner City Development Program tennis prodigy 
at ten, recruited up the hill at eleven, with parents who wanted to know how much 
E.T.A.'d pay up front for rights to all future possible income. Cavalier about practice but 
a bundle of strangled nerves in tournaments, the rap on Pemulis is that he's way lower- 
ranked than he could be with a little hard work, since he's not only E.T.A.'s finest 
Eschatonic 53 marksman off the lob but Schtitt says is the one youth here now who 
knows truly what is it to punch the volley. Pemulis, whose pre-E.T.A. home life was 
apparently hackle-raising, also sells small-time drugs of distinguished potency at 
reasonable retail prices to a large pie-slice of the total junior-tournament-circuit market. 
Mario Incandenza is one of those people who wouldn't see the point of trying 
recreational chemicals even if he knew how to go about it. He just wouldn't get it. His 
smile, below the Bolex camera strapped to his large but sort of withered-looking head, is 
constant and broad as he films the line's serpentine movement against glass shelves full 
of prizes. 

M. M. Pemulis, whose middle name is Mathew (sic), has the highest Stanford-Binet of 
any kid on academic probation ever at the Academy. Hal Incandenza's most valiant 
efforts barely get Pemulis through Mrs. I's triad of required Grammars 54 and Soma R.-L.- 
0. Chawaf's heady Literature of Discipline, because Pemulis, who claims he sees every 
third word upside-down, actually just has a born tech-science wienie's congenital 
impatience with the referential murkiness and inelegance of verbal systems. His early 
tennis promise quick-peaking and it's turned out a bit dilettantish, Pemulis's real 
enduring gift is for math and hard science, and his scholarship is the coveted James 0. 
Incandenza Geometrical Optics Scholarship, of which there is only one, and which each 
term Pemulis manages to avoid losing by just one dento-dermal layer of overall G.P.A., 
and which gives him sanctioned access to all the late director's lenses and equipment, 
some of which turn out to be useful to unrelated enterprises. Mario's the only other 
person sharing the optic-and-editing labs off the main tunnel, and the two have the kind 
of transpersonal bond that shared interests and mutual advantage can inspire: if Mario's 
not helping Pemulis fabricate the products of independent-optical-study work M.P. isn't 



really much into doing — you should see the boy with a convex lens, Avril likes to say 
within Mario's hearing; he's like a fish in brine — then Pemulis is giving Mario, who's a 
film-nut but no great tech-mind, serious help with cinemo-optical praxis, the physics of 
focal-length and reflective compounds — you should see Pemulis with an emulsion 
curve, yawning blasely under his bill-reversed yachting hat and scratching an armpit, 
juggling differentials like a boy born to wear a pocket-protector and high-water 
corduroys and electrician's tape on his hornrims' temples, asking Mario if he knows 
what you call three Canadians copulating on a snowmobile. Mario and his brother Hal 
both consider Pemulis a good friend, though friendship at E.T.A. is nonnegotiable 
currency. 

Hal Incandenza for a long time identified himself as a lexical prodigy who — though 
Avril had taken pains to let all three of her children know that her nonjudgmental love 
and pride depended in no way on achievement or performance or potential talent — 
had made his mother proud, plus a really good tennis player. Hal Incandenza is now 
being encouraged to identify himself as a late-blooming prodigy and possible genius at 
tennis who is on the verge of making every authority-figure in his world and beyond 
very proud indeed. He's never looked better on court or on monthly O.N.A.N.T.A. paper. 
He is erumpent. He has made what Schtitt termed a 'leap of exponents' at a post- 
pubescent age when radical, plateaux-hopping, near-J.-Wayne-and-Show-caliber 
improvement is extraordinarily rare in tennis. He gets his sterile urine gratis, though he 
could well afford to pay: Pemulis depends on him for verbal-academic support, and 
dislikes owing favors, even to friends. 

Hal is, at seventeen, as of 10/Y.D.A.U., judged ex cathedra the fourth-best tennis 
player under age eighteen in the United States of America, and the sixth-best on the 
continent, by those athletic-organizing bodies duly charged with the task of ranking. 
Hal's head, closely monitored by deLint and Staff, is judged still level and focused and 
unswollen/-bludgeoned by the sudden eclat and rise in general expectations. When 
asked how he's doing with it all, Hal says Fine and thanks you for asking. 

If Hal fulfills this newly emergent level of promise and makes it all the way up to the 
Show, Mario will be the only one of the Incandenza children not wildly successful as a 
professional athlete. No one who knows Mario could imagine that this fact would ever 
even occur to him. 

Orin, Mario, and Hal's late father was revered as a genius in his original profession 
without anybody ever realizing what he really turned out to be a genius at, even he 
himself, at least not while he was alive, which is perhaps bona-fidely tragic but also, as 
far as Mario's concerned, ultimately all right, if that's the way things unfolded. 

Certain people find people like Mario Incandenza irritating or even think they're 
outright bats, dead inside in some essential way. 

Michael Pemulis's basic posture with people is that Mrs. Pemulis raised no dewy-eyed 
fools. He wears painter's caps on-court and sometimes a yachting cap turned around 
180°, and, since he's not ranked high enough to get any free-corporate-clothing offers, 
plays in T-shirts with things like ALLSTON HS WOLF SPIDERS and CHOOSY MOTHERS and 
THE FIENDS IN HUMAN SHAPE Y.D.A.U. TOUR or like an ancient CAN YOU BELIEVE IT THE 
SUPREME COURT JUST DESECRATED OUR FLAG on them. His face is the sort of spiky- 



featured brow-dominated Feenian face you see all over Irish Allston and Brighton, its 
chin and nose sharp and skin the natal brown color of the shell of a quality nut. 

Michael Pemulis is nobody's fool, and he fears the dealer's Brutus, the potential eater 
of cheese, the rat, the wiretap, the pubescent-looking Finest sent to make him look 
foolish. So when somebody calls his room's phone, even on video, and wants to buy 
some sort of substance, they have to right off the bat utter the words 'Please commit a 
crime,' and Michael Pemulis will reply 'Gracious me and mine, a crime you say?' and the 
customer has to insist, right over the phone, and say he'll pay Michael Pemulis money to 
commit a crime, or like that he'll harm Michael Pemulis in some way if he refuses to 
commit a crime, and Michael Pemulis will in a clear and I.D.able voice make an 
appointment to see the caller in person to 'plead for my honor and personal safety,' so 
that if anybody eats cheese later or the phone's frequency is covertly accessed, 
somehow, Pemulis will have been entrapped. 55 

Secreting a small Visine bottle of urine in an armpit in line also brings it up to plausible 
temperature. At the entrance to the male stall-area, the ephebic-looking O.N.A.N.T.A. 
toxicologist rarely even looks up from his clipboard, but the square-faced nurse can be a 
problem over on the female side, because every so often she'll want the stall door open 
during production. With Jim Struck handling published-source plagiarism and 
compressed iteration and Xerography, Pemulis also offers, at reasonable cost, a small 
vade mecum ish pamphlet detailing several methods for dealing with this contingency. 


WINTER B.S. 1960 — TUCSON AZ 


Jim not that way Jim. That's no way to treat a garage door, bending stiffly down at the 
waist and yanking at the handle so the door jerks up and out jerky and hard and you 
crack your shins and my ruined knees, son. Let's see you bend at the healthy knees. Let's 
see you hook a soft hand lightly over the handle feeling its subtle grain and pull just as 
exactly gently as will make it come to you. Experiment, Jim. See just how much force 
you need to start the door easy, let it roll up out open on its hidden greasy rollers and 
pulleys in the ceiling's set of spiderwebbed beams. Think of all garage doors as the well- 
oiled open-out door of a broiler with hot meat in, heat roiling out, hot. Needless and 
dangerous ever to yank, pull, shove, thrust. Your mother is a shover and a thruster, son. 
She treats bodies outside herself without respect or due care. She's never learned that 
treating things in the gentlest most relaxed way is also treating them and your own body 
in the most efficient way. It's Marlon Brando's fault, Jim. Your mother back in California 
before you were born, before she became a devoted mother and long-suffering wife 



and breadwinner, son, your mother had a bit part in a Marlon Brando movie. Her big 
moment. Had to stand there in saddle shoes and bobby sox and ponytail and put her 
hands over her ears as really loud motorbikes roared by. A major thespian moment, 
believe you me. She was in love from afar with this fellow Marlon Brando, son. Who? 
Who. Jim, Marlon Brando was the archetypal new-type actor who ruined it looks like 
two whole generations' relations with their own bodies and the everyday objects and 
bodies around them. No? Well it was because of Brando you were opening that garage 
door like that, Jimbo. The disrespect gets learned and passed on. Passed down. You'll 
know Brando when you watch him, and you'll have learned to fear him. Brando, Jim, 
Jesus, B-r-a-n-d-o. Brando the new archetypal tough-guy rebel and slob type, leaning 
back on his chair's rear legs, coming crooked through doorways, slouching against 
everything in sight, trying to dominate objects, showing no artful respect or care, 
yanking things toward him like a moody child and using them up and tossing them 
crudely aside so they miss the wastebasket and just lie there, ill-used. With the over- 
clumsy impetuous movements and postures of a moody infant. Your mother is of that 
new generation that moves against life's grain, across its warp and baffles. She may 
have loved Marlon Brando, Jim, but she didn't understand him, is what's ruined her for 
everyday arts like broilers and garage doors and even low-level public-park knock- 
around tennis. Ever see your mother with a broiler door? It's carnage, Jim, it's to cringe 
to see it, and the poor dumb thing thinks it's tribute to this slouching slob-type she 
loved as he roared by. Jim, she never intuited the gentle and cunning economy behind 
this man's quote harsh sloppy unstudied approach to objects. The way he'd oh so clearly 
practiced a chair's back-leg tilt over and over. The way he studied objects with a 
welder's eye for those strongest centered seams which when pressured by the 
swinishest slouch still support. She never... never sees that Marlon Brando felt himself 
as body so keenly he'd no need for manner. She never sees that in his quote careless 
way he actually really touched whatever he touched as if it were part of him. Of his own 
body. The world he only seemed to manhandle was for him sentient, feeling. And no 
one... and she never understood that. Sour sodding grapes indeed. You can't envy 
someone who can be that way. Respect, maybe. Maybe wistful respect, at the very 
outside. She never saw that Brando was playing the equivalent of high-level quality 
tennis across sound stages all over both coasts, Jim, is what he was really doing. Jim, he 
moved like a careless fingerling, one big muscle, muscularly naive, but always, notice, a 
fingerling at the center of a clear current. That kind of animal grace. The bastard wasted 
no motion, is what made it art, this brutish no-care. His was a tennis player's dictum: 
touch things with consideration and they will be yours; you will own them; they will 
move or stay still or move for you; they will lie back and part their legs and yield up their 
innermost seams to you. Teach you all their tricks. He knew what the Beats know and 
what the great tennis player knows, son: learn to do nothing, with your whole head and 
body, and everything will be done by what's around you. I know you don't understand. 
Yet. I know that goggle-eyed stare. I know what it means all too well, son. It's no matter. 
You will. Jim, I know what I know. 

I'm predicting it right here, young sir Jim. You are going to be a great tennis player. I 
was near-great. You will be truly great. You will be the real thing. I know I haven't taught 



you to play yet, I know this is your first time, Jim, Jesus, relax, I know. It doesn't affect 
my predictive sense. You will overshadow and obliterate me. Today you are starting, 
and within a very few years I know all too well you will be able to beat me out there, 
and on the day you first beat me I may well weep. It'll be out of a sort of selfless pride, 
an obliterated father's terrible joy. I feel it, Jim, even here, standing on hot gravel and 
looking: in your eyes I see the appreciation of angle, a prescience re spin, the way you 
already adjust your overlarge and apparently clumsy child's body in the chair so it's at 
the line of best force against dish, spoon, lens-grinding appliance, a big book's stiff bend. 
You do it unconsciously. You have no idea. But I watch, very closely. Don't ever think I 
don't, son. 

You will be poetry in motion, Jim, size and posture and all. Don't let the posture- 
problem fool you about your true potential out there. Take it from me, for a change. The 
trick will be transcending that overlarge head, son. Learning to move just the way you 
already sit still. Living in your body. 

This is the communal garage, son. And this is our door in the garage. I know you know. 

I know you've looked at it before, many times. Now... now see it, Jim. See it as body. The 
dull-colored handle, the clockwise latch, the bits of bug trapped when the paint was wet 
and now still protruding. The cracks from this merciless sunlight out here. Original color 
anyone's guess, boyo. The concave inlaid squares, how many, bevelled at how many 
levels at the borders, that pass for decoration. Count the squares, maybe... let's see you 
treat this door like a lady, son. Twisting the latch clockwise with one hand that's right 
and... I guess you'll have to pull harder, Jim. Maybe even harder than that. Let me ... 
that's the way she wants doing, Jim. Have a look. Jim, this is where we keep this 1956 
Mercury Montclair you know so well. This Montclair weighs 3,900 pounds, give or take. 
It has eight cylinders and a canted windshield and aerodynamic fins, Jim, and has a 
maximum flat-out road-speed of 95 m.p.h. per. I described the shade of the paint job of 
this Montclair to the dealer when I first saw it as bit-lip red. Jim, it's a machine. It will do 
what it's made for and do it perfectly, but only when stimulated by someone who's 
made it his business to know its tricks and seams, as a body. The stimulator of this car 
must know the car, Jim, feel it, be inside much more than just the... the compartment. 
It's an object, Jim, a body, but don't let it fool you, sitting here, mute. It will respond. If 
given its due. With artful care. It's a body and will respond with a well-oiled purr once I 
get some decent oil in her and all Mercuryish at up to 95 big ones per for just that driver 
who treats its body like his own, who feels the big steel body he's inside, who quietly 
and unnoticed feels the nubbly plastic of the grip of the shift up next to the wheel when 
he shifts just as he feels the skin and flesh, the muscle and sinew and bone wrapped in 
gray spiderwebs of nerves in the blood-fed hand just as he feels the plastic and metal 
and flange and teeth, the pistons and rubber and rods of the amber-fueled Montclair, 
when he shifts. The bodily red of a well-bit lip, parping along at a silky 80-plus per. Jim, a 
toast to our knowledge of bodies. To high-level tennis on the road of life. Ah. Oh. 

Son, you're ten, and this is hard news for somebody ten, even if you're almost five- 
eleven, a possible pituitary freak. Son, you're a body, son. That quick little scientific- 
prodigy's mind she's so proud of and won't quit twittering about: son, it's just neural 
spasms, those thoughts in your mind are just the sound of your head revving, and head 



is still just body, Jim. Commit this to memory. Head is body. Jim, brace yourself against 
my shoulders here for this hard news, at ten: you're a machine a body an object, Jim, no 
less than this rutilant Montclair, this coil of hose here or that rake there for the front 
yard's gravel or sweet Jesus this nasty fat spider flexing in its web over there up next to 
the rake-handle, see it? See it? Latrodectus mactans, Jim. Widow. Grab this racquet and 
move gracefully and feelingly over there and kill that widow for me, young sir Jim. Go 
on. Make it say 'K.' Take no names. There's a lad. Here's to a spiderless section of 
communal garage. Ah. 

Bodies bodies everywhere. A tennis ball is the ultimate body, kid. We're coming to the 
crux of what I have to try to impart to you before we get out there and start actuating 
this fearsome potential of yours. Jim, a tennis ball is the ultimate body. Perfectly round. 
Even distribution of mass. But empty inside, utterly, a vacuum. Susceptible to whim, 
spin, to force — used well or poorly. It will reflect your own character. Characterless 
itself. Pure potential. Have a look at a ball. Get a ball from the cheap green plastic 
laundry basket of old used balls I keep there by the propane torches and use to practice 
the occasional serve, Jimbo. Attaboy. Now look at the ball. Heft it. Feel the weight. Here, 
I'll... tear the ball... open. Whew. See? Nothing in there but evacuated air that smells like 
a kind of rubber hell. Empty. Pure potential. Notice I tore it open along the seam. It's a 
body. You'll learn to treat it with consideration, son, some might say a kind of love, and 
it will open for you, do your bidding, be at your beck and soft lover's call. The thing truly 
great players with hale bodies who overshadow all others have is a way with the ball 
that's called, and keep in mind the garage door and broiler, touch. Touch the ball. Now 
that's ... that's the touch of a player right there. And as with the ball so with that big thin 
slumped overtall body, sir Jimbo. I'm predicting it right now. I see the way you'll apply 
the lessons of today to yourself as a physical body. No more carrying your head at the 
level of your chest under round slumped shoulders. No more tripping up. No more 
overshot reaches, shattered plates, tilted lampshades, slumped shoulders and caved-in 
chest, the simplest objects twisting and resistant in your big thin hands, boy. Imagine 
what it feels like to be this ball, Jim. Total physicality. No revving head. Complete 
presence. Absolute potential, sitting there potentially absolute in your big pale slender 
girlish hand so young its thumb's unwrinkled at the joint. My thumb's wrinkled at the 
joint, Jim, some might say gnarled. Have a look at this thumb right here. But I still treat it 
as my own. I give it its due. You want a drink of this, son? I think you're ready for a drink 
of this. No? Nein? Today, Lesson One out there, you become, for better or worse, Jim, a 
man. A player. A body in commerce with bodies. A helmsman at your own vessel's tiller. 
A machine in the ghost, to quote a phrase. Ah. A ten-year-old freakishly tall bow-tied 
and thick-spectacled citizen of the... I drink this, sometimes, when I'm not actively 
working, to help me accept the same painful things it's now time for me to tell you, son. 
Jim. Are you ready? I'm telling you this now because you have to know what I'm about 
to tell you if you're going to be the more than near-great top-level tennis player I know 
you're going to be eventually very soon. Brace yourself. Son, get ready. It's glo... 
gloriously painful. Have just maybe a taste, here. This flask is silver. Treat it with due 
care. Feel its shape. The near-soft feel of the warm silver and the calfskin sheath that 
covers only half its flat rounded silver length. An object that rewards a considered 



touch. Feel the slippery heat? That's the oil from my fingers. My oil, Jim, from my body. 
Not my hand, son, feel the flask. Heft it. Get to know it. It's an object. A vessel. It's a 
two-pint flask full of amber liquid. Actually more like half full, it seems. So it seems. This 
flask has been treated with due care. It's never been dropped or jostled or crammed. It's 
never had an errant drop, not drop one, spilled out of it. I treat it as if it can feel. I give it 
its due, as a body. Unscrew the cap. Hold the calfskin sheath in your right hand and use 
your good left hand to feel the cap's shape and ease it around on the threads. Son... son, 
you'll have to put that what is that that Columbia Guide to Refractive Indices Second 
Edition down, son. Looks heavy anyway. A tendon-strainer. Fuck up your pronator teres 
and surrounding tendons before you even start. You're going to have to put down the 
book, for once, young Sir Jimbo, you never try to handle two objects at the same time 
without just aeons of diligent practice and care, a Brando-like dis... and well no you 
don't just drop the book, son, you don't just just don't drop the big old Guide to Indices 
on the dusty garage floor so it raises a square bloom of dust and gets our nice white 
athletic socks all gray before we even hit the court, boy, Jesus I just took five minutes 
explaining how the key to being even a potential player is to treat the things with just 
exactly the... here lemme have this... that books aren't just dropped with a crash like 
bottles in the trashcan they're placed, guided, with senses on Full, feeling the edges, the 
pressure on the little floor of both hands' fingers as you bend at the knees with the 
book, the slight gassy shove as the air on the dusty floor... as the floor's air gets 
displaced in a soft square that raises no dust. Like soooo. Not like so. Got me? Got it? 
Well now don't be that way. Son, don't be that way, now. Don't get all oversensitive on 
me, son, when all I'm trying to do is help you. Son, Jim, I hate this when you do this. 
Your chin just disappears into that bow-tie when your big old overhung lower lip quivers 
like that. You look chinless, son, and big-lipped. And that cape of mucus that's coming 
down on your upper lip, the way it shines, don't, just don't, it's revolting, son, you don't 
want to revolt people, you have to learn to control this sort of oversensitivity to hard 
truths, this sort of thing, take and exert some goddamn control is the whole point of 
what I'm taking this whole entire morning off rehearsal with not one but two vitally 
urgent auditions looming down my neck so I can show you, planning to let you move the 
seat back and touch the shift and maybe even... maybe even drive the Montclair, God 
knows your feet'll reach, right Jimbo? Jim, hey, why not drive the Montclair? Why not 
you drive us over, starting today, pull up by the courts where today you'll — here, look, 
see how I unscrew it? the cap? with the soft very outermost tips of my gnarled fingers 
which I wish they were steadier but I'm exerting control to control my anger at that chin 
and lip and the cape of snot and the way your eyes slant and goggle like some sort of 
mongoloid child's when you're threatening to cry but just the very tips of the fingers, 
here, the most sensitive parts, the parts bathed in warm oil, the whorled pads, I feel 
them singing with nerves and blood I let them extend... further than the warm silver hip¬ 
flask's cap's very top down its broadening cone where to where the threads around the 
upraised little circular mouth lie hidden while with the other warm singing hand I gently 
grip the leather holster so I can feel the way the whole flask feels as I guide... guide the 
cap around on its silver threads, hear that? stop that and listen, hear that? the sound of 
threads moving through well-machined grooves, with great care, a smooth barbershop 



spiral, my whole hand right through the pads of my fingertips less... less unscrewing, 
here, than guiding, persuading, reminding the silver cap's body what it's built to do, 
machined to do, the silver cap knows, Jim, I know, you know, we've been through this 
before, leave the book alone, boy, it's not going anywhere, so the silver cap leaves the 
flask's mouth's warm grooved lips with just a snick, hear that? that faintest snick? not a 
rasp or a grinding sound or harsh, not a harsh brutal Brando-esque rasp of attempted 
domination but a snick a... nuance, there, ah, oh, like the once you've heard it never 
mistakable ponk of a true-hit ball, Jim, well pick it up then if you're afraid of a little dust, 
Jim, pick the book up if it's going to make you all goggle-eyed and chinless honestly 
Jesus why do I try I try and try just wanted to introduce you to the broiler's garage and 
let you drive, maybe, feeling the Montclair's body, taking my time to let you pull up to 
the courts with the Montclair's shift in a neutral glide and the eight cylinders thrumming 
and snicking like a healthy heart and the wheels all perfectly flush with the curb and 
bring out my good old trusty laundry... laundry basket of balls and racquets and towels 
and flask and my son, my flesh of my flesh, white slumped flesh of my flesh who wanted 
to embark on what I predict right now will be a tennis career that'll put his busted-up 
used-up old Dad back square in his little place, who wanted to maybe for once be a real 
boy and learn how to play and have fun and frolic and play around in the unrelieved 
sunshine this city's so fuck-all famous for, to enjoy it while he can because did your 
mother tell you we're moving? That we're moving back to California finally this spring? 
We're moving, son. I'm harking one last attempted time to that celluloid siren's call. I'm 
giving it the one last total shot a man's obligation to his last waning talent deserves, Jim, 
we're headed for the big time again at last for the first time since she announced she 
was having you, Jim, hitting the road, celluloid-bound, so say adios to that school and 
that fluttery little moth of a physics teacher and those slumped chinless slide-rule- 
wielding friends of no now wait I didn't mean it I meant I wanted to tell you now, ahead 
of time, your mother and I, to give you plenty of notice so you could adjust this time 
because oh you made it so unmisinterpretably clear how this last move to this trailer 
park upset you so, didn't you, to a mobile home with chemical toilet and bolts to hold it 
in place and widow-webs everyplace you look and grit settling on everything like dust 
out here instead of the Club's staff quarters I got us removed from or the house it was 
clearly my fault we couldn't afford anymore. It was my fault. I mean who else's fault 
would it be? Am I right? That we moved your big soft body with allegedly not enough 
notice and that east-side school you cried over and that Negro research resource 
librarian there with the hair out to here that... that lady with the upturned nose on 
tiptoe all the time I have to tell you she seemed so consummate east-side Tucsonian all 
self-consciously not of this earth's grit urging us to quote nurture your optical knack 
with physics with her nose upturned so you could see up in there and on her toes like 
something skilled overhead had sunk a hook between her big splayed fingerling's 
nostrils and were reeling skyward up toward the aether little by little I'll bet those 
heelless pumps are off the floor altogether by now son what do you say son what do 
you think... no, go on, cry, don't inhibit yourself, I won't say a word, except it's getting to 
me less all the time when you do it. I'll just warn you, I think you're overworking the 
tears and the... it's getting less effec... effective with me each time you use it though we 



know we both know don't we just between you and me we know it'll always work on 
your mother, won't it, never fail, she'll every time take and bend your big head down to 
her shoulder so it looks obscene, if you could see it, pat-patting on your back like she's 
burping some sort of slumping oversized obscene bow-tied infant with a book straining 
his pronator teres, crying, will you do this when you're grown? Will there be episodes 
like this when you're a man at your own tiller? A citizen of a world that won't go pat- 
pat-there-there? Will your face crumple and bulge like this when you're six-and-a-half 
grotesque feet tall, six-six-plus like your grandfather may he rot in hell's rubber vacuum 
when he finally kicks on the tenth tee and with your flat face and no chin just like him on 
that poor dumb patient woman's fragile wet snotty long-suffering shoulder did I tell you 
what he did? Did I tell you what he did? I was your age Jim here take the flask no give it 
here, oh. Oh. I was thirteen, and I'd started to play well, seriously, I was twelve or 
thirteen and playing for years already and he'd never been to watch, he'd never come 
once to where I was playing, to watch, or even changed his big flat expression even once 
when I brought home a trophy I won trophies or a notice in the paper TUCSON NATIVE 
QUALIFIES FOR NATIONAL JR CH'SHIPS he never acknowledged I even existed as I was, 
not as I do you, Jim, not as I take care to bend over backwards way, way out of my way 
to let you know I see you recognize you am aware of you as a body care about what 
might go on behind that big flat face bent over a homemade prism. He plays golf. Your 
grandfather. Your grand-pappy. Golf. A golf man. Is my tone communicating the 
contempt? Billiards on a big table, Jim. A bodiless game of spasmodic flailing and flying 
sod. A quote unquote sport. Anal rage and checkered berets. This is almost empty. This 
is just about it, son. What say we rain-check this. What say I put the last of this out of its 
amber misery and we go in and tell her you're not feeling up to snuff enough again and 
we're rain-checking your first introduction to the Game till this weekend and we'll head 
over this weekend and do two straight days both days and give you a really extensive 
intensive intro to a by all appearances limitless future. Intensive gentleness and bodily 
care equals great tennis, Jim. We'll go both days and let you plunge right in and get wet 
all over. It's only five dollars. The court fee. For one lousy hour. Each day. Five dollars 
each day. Don't give it a thought. Ten total dollars for an intensive weekend when we 
live in a glorified trailer and have to share a garage with two DeSotos and what looks like 
a Model A on blocks and my Montclair can't afford the kind of oil she deserves. Don't 
look like that. What's money or my rehearsals for the celluloid auditions we're moving 
700 miles for, auditions that may well comprise your old man's last shot at a life with 
any meaning at all, compared to my son? Right? Am I right? Come here, kid. C'mere 
c'mere c'mere c'mere. That's a boy. That's my J.O.I, of a guy of a joy of boy. That's my 
kid, in his body. He never came once, Jim. Not once. To watch. Mother never missed a 
competitive match, of course. Mother came to so many it ceased to mean anything that 
she came. She became part of the environment. Mothers are like that, as I'm sure you're 
aware all too well, am I right? Right? Never came once, kiddo. Never lumbered over all 
slumped and soft and cast his big grotesque long-even-at-midday shadow at any court I 
performed on. Till one day he came, once. Suddenly, once, without precedent or 
warning, he... came. Ah. Oh. I heard him coming long before he hove into view. He cast 
a long shadow, Jim. It was some minor local event. It was some early-round local thing 



of very little consequence in the larger scheme. I was playing some local dandy, the kind 
with fine equipment and creased white clothing and country-club lessons that still can't 
truly play, even, regardless of all the support. You'll find you often have to endure this 
type of opponent in the first couple rounds. This gleaming hapless lox of a kid was some 
client of my father's son... son of one of his clients. So he came for the client, to put on 
some sham show of fatherly concern. He wore a hat and coat and tie at 95° plus. The 
client. Can't recall the name. There was something canine about his face, I remember, 
that his kid across the net had inherited. My father wasn't even sweating. I grew up with 
the man in this town and never once saw him sweat, Jim. I remember he wore a boater 
and the sort of gregariously plaid uniform professional men had to wear on the 
weekends then. They sat in the indecisive shade of a scraggly palm, the sort of palm 
that's just crawling with black widows, in the fronds, that come down without warning, 
that hide lying in wait in the heat of midday. They sat on the blanket my mother always 
brought — my mother, who's dead, and the client. My father stood apart, sometimes in 
the waving shade, sometimes not, smoking a long filter. Long filters had come into 
fashion. He never sat on the ground. Not in the American Southwest he didn't. There 
was a man with a healthy respect for spiders. And never on the ground under a palm. He 
knew he was too grotesquely tall and ungainly to stand up in a hurry or roll screaming 
out of the way in a hurry in case of falling spiders. They've been known to be willing to 
drop right out of the trees they hide in, in the daytime, you know. Drop right on you if 
you're sitting on the ground in the shade. He was no fool, the bastard. A golfer. They all 
watched. I was right there on the first court. This park no longer exists, Jim. Cars are 
now parked on what used to be these rough green asphalt courts, shimmering in the 
heat. They were right there, watching, their heads going back and forth in that 
windshield-wiper way of people watching quality tennis. And was I nervous, young sir 
J.O.I.? With the one and only Himself there in all his wooden glory there, watching, half 
in and out of the light, expressionless? I was not. I was in my body. My body and I were 
one. My wood Wilson from my stack of wood Wilsons in their trapezoid presses was a 
sentient expression of my arm, and I felt it singing, and my hand, and they were alive, 
my well-armed hand was the secretary of my mind, lithe and responsive and senza 
errori, because I knew myself as a body and was fully inside my little child's body out 
there, Jim, I was in my big right arm and scarless legs, safely ensconced, running here 
and there, my head pounding like a heart, sweat purled on every limb, running like a 
veldt-creature, leaping, frolicking, striking with maximum economy and minimum effort, 
my eyes on the ball and the corners both, I was two, three, a couple shots ahead of both 
me and the hapless canine client's kid, handing the dandy his pampered ass. It was 
carnage. It was a scene out of nature in its rawest state, Jim. You should have been 
there. The kid kept bending over to get his breath. The smoothly economical frolicking I 
was doing contrasted starkly compared to the heavily jerky way he was being forced to 
stomp around and lunge. His white knit shirt and name-brand shorts were soaked 
through so you could see the straps of his jock biting into the soft ass I was handing him. 
He wore a flitty little white visor such as fifty-two-year-old women at country clubs and 
posh Southwestern resorts wear. I was, in a word, deft, considered, prescient. I made 
him stomp and stagger and lunge. I wanted to humiliate him. The client's long sharp 



face was sagging. My father had no face, it was sharply shadowed and then illuminated 
in the wagging fronds' shadow he half stood in but was wreathed in smoke from the 
long filters he fancied, long plastic filtered holders, yellowed at the stem, in imitation of 
the President, as courtiers once spluttered with the King... veiled in shade and then lit 
smoke. The client didn't know enough to keep quiet. He thought he was at a ball game 
or something. The client's voice carried. Our first court was right near the tree they sat 
under. The client's legs were out in front of them and protruded from the sharp star of 
frond-shade. His slacks were lattice-shadowed from the pattern of the fence his son and 
I played just behind. He was drinking the lemonade my mother had brought for me. She 
made it fresh. He said I was good. My father's client did. In that emphasized way that 
made his voice carry. You know, son? Good godfrey Incandenza old trout but that lad of 
yours is good. Unquote. I heard him say it as I ran and whacked and frolicked. And I 
heard the tall son of a bitch's reply, after a long pause during which the world's whole 
air hung there as if lifted and left to swing. Standing at the baseline, or walking back to 
the baseline, to either serve or receive, one of the two, I heard the client. His voice 
carried. And then later I heard my father's reply, may he rot in a green and empty hell. I 
heard what... what he said in reply, sonbo. But not until after I'd fallen. I insist on this 
point, Jim. Not until after I'd started to fall. Jim, I'd been in the middle of trying to run 
down a ball way out of mortal reach, a rare blind lucky dribbler of a drop-shot from the 
over-groomed lox across the net. A point I could have more than afforded to concede. 
But that's not the way I... that's not the way a real player plays. With respect and due 
effort and care for every point. You want to be great, near-great, you give every ball 
everything. And then some. You concede nothing. Even against loxes. You play right up 
to your limit and then pass your limit and look back at your former limit and wave a 
hankie at it, embarking. You enter a trance. You feel the seams and edges of everything. 
The court becomes a... an extremely unique place to be. It will do everything for you. It 
will let nothing escape your body. Objects move as they're made to, at the lightest 
easiest touch. You slip into the clear current of back and forth, making delicate X's and 
L's across the harsh rough bright green asphalt surface, your sweat the same 
temperature as your skin, playing with such ease and total mindless effortless effort and 
and and entranced concentration you don't even stop to consider whether to run down 
every ball. You're barely aware you're doing it. Your body's doing it for you and the 
court and Game's doing it for your body. You're barely involved. It's magic, boy. Nothing 
touches it, when it's right. I predict it. Facts and figures and curved glass and those 
elbow-straining books of yours' lightless pages are going to seem flat by comparison. 
Static. Dead and white and flat. They don't begin to... It's like a dance, Jim. The point is I 
was too bodily respectful to slip up and fall on my own, out there. And the other point is 
I started to fall forward even before I started to hear him reply, standing there: Yes, But 
He'll Never Be Great. What he said in no way made me fall forward. The unlovely 
opponent had dribbled one just barely over the too-low public-park net, a freak 
accident, a mishit drop-shot, and another man on another court in another early-round 
laugher would have let it dribble, conceded the affordable, not tried to wave a hankie 
from the vessel of his limit. Not race on all eight healthy scarless cylinders desperately 
forward toward the net to try to catch the goddamn thing on the first bounce. Jim, but 



any man can slip. I don't know what I slipped on, son. There were spiders well-known to 
infest the palms' fronds all along the courts' fences. They come down at night on 
threads, bulbous, flexing. I'm thinking it could have been a bulbous goo-filled widow I 
stepped and slipped on, Jim, a spider, a mad rogue spider come down on its thread into 
the shade, flabby and crawling, or that leapt suicidally right from an overhanging frond 
onto the court, probably making a slight flabby hideous sound when it landed, crawling 
around on its claws, blinking grotesquely in the hot light it hated, that I stepped on 
rushing forward and killed and slipped on the mess the big loathsome spider made. See 
these scars? All knotted and ragged, like something had torn at my own body's knees 
the way a slouching Brando would just rip a letter open with his teeth and let the 
envelope fall on the floor all wet and rent and torn? All the palms along the fence were 
sick, they had palm-rot, it was the A.D. year 1933, of the Great Bisbee Palm-Rot 
epidemic, all through the state, and they were losing their fronds and the fronds were 
blighted and the color of really old olives in those old slim jars at the very back of the 
refrigerator and exuded a sick sort of pus-like slippery discharge and sometimes 
abruptly fell from trees curving back and forth through the air like celluloid pirates' 
paper swords. God I hate fronds, Jim. I'm thinking it could have been either a daytime 
latrodectus or some pus from a frond. The wind blew cruddy pus from the webbed 
fronds onto the court, maybe, up near the net. Either way. Something poisonous or 
infected, at any rate, unexpected and slick. All it takes is a second, you're thinking, Jim: 
the body betrays you and down you go, on your knees, sliding on sandpaper court. Not 
so, son. I used to have another flask like this, smaller, a rather more cunning silver flask, 
in the glove compartment of my Montclair. Your devoted mother did something to it. 
The subject has never been mentioned between us. Not so. It was a foreign body, or a 
substance, not my body, and if anybody did any betraying that day I'm telling you sonny 
kid boy it was something / did, Jimmer, I may well have betrayed that fine young lithe 
tan unslumped body, I may very well have gotten rigid, overconscious, careless of it, 
listening for what my father, who I respected, I respected that man, Jim, is what's sick, I 
knew he was there, I was conscious of his flat face and filter's long shadow, I knew him, 
Jim. Things were different when I was growing up, Jim. I hate... Jesus I hate saying 
something like this, this things-were-different-when-l-was-a-lad-type cliche shit, the sort 
of cliche fathers back then spouted, assuming he said anything at all. But it was. 
Different. Our kids, my generation's kids, they... now you, this post-Brando crowd, you 
new kids can't like us or dislike us or respect us or not as human beings, Jim. Your 
parents. No, wait, you don't have to pretend you disagree, don't, you don't have to say 
it, Jim. Because I know it. I could have predicted it, watching Brando and Dean and the 
rest, and I know it, so don't splutter. I blame no one your age, boyo. You see parents as 
kind or unkind or happy or miserable or drunk or sober or great or near-great or failed 
the way you see a table square or a Montclair lip-red. Kids today... you kids today 
somehow don't know how to feel, much less love, to say nothing of respect. We're just 
bodies to you. We're just bodies and shoulders and scarred knees and big bellies and 
empty wallets and flasks to you. I'm not saying something cliche like you take us for 
granted so much as I'm saying you cannot... imagine our absence. We're so present it's 
ceased to mean. We're environmental. Furniture of the world. Jim, I could imagine that 



man's absence. Jim, I'm telling you you cannot imagine my absence. It's my fault, Jim, 
home so much, limping around, ruined knees, overweight, under the Influence, burping, 
nonslim, sweat-soaked in that broiler of a trailer, burping, farting, frustrated, miserable, 
knocking lamps over, overshooting my reach. Afraid to give my last talent the one shot it 
demanded. Talent is its own expectation, Jim: you either live up to it or it waves a 
hankie, receding forever. Use it or lose it, he'd say over the newspaper. I'm... I'm just 
afraid of having a tombstone that says HERE LIES A PROMISING OLD MAN. It's... po¬ 
tential may be worse than none, Jim. Than no talent to fritter in the first place, lying 
around guzzling because I haven't the balls to... God I'm I'm so sorry. Jim. You don't 
deserve to see me like this. I'm so scared, Jim. I'm so scared of dying without ever being 
really seen. Can you understand? Are you enough of a big thin prematurely stooped 
young bespectacled man, even with your whole life still ahead of you, to understand? 
Can you see I was giving it all I had? That I was in there, out there in the heat, listening, 
webbed with nerves? A self that touches all edges, I remember she said. I felt it in a way 
I fear you and your generation never could, son. It was less like falling than being shot 
out of something, is the way I recall it. It did not did not happen in slow motion. One 
minute I was at a dead and beautiful forward run for the ball, the next minute there 
were hands at my back and nothing underfoot like a push down a stairway. A rude whip¬ 
lashing shove square in the back and my promising body with all its webs of nerves puls¬ 
ing and firing was in full airborne flight and came down on my knees this flask is empty 
right down on my knees with all my weight and inertia on that scabrous hot sandpaper 
surface forced into what was an exact parody of an imitation of contemplative prayer, 
sliding forward. The flesh and then tissue and bone left twin tracks of brown red gray 
white like tire tracks of bodily gore extending from the service line to the net. I slid on 
my flaming knees, rushed past the dribbling ball and toward the net that ended my 
slide. Our slide. My racquet had gone pinwheeling off Jim and my racquetless arms out 
before me sliding Jim in the attitude of a mortified monk in total prayer. It was given me 
to hear my father pronounce my bodily existence as not even potentially great at the 
moment I ruined my knees forever, Jim, so that even years later at USC I never got to 
wave my hankie at anything beyond the near- and almost-great and would-have-been- 
great -if, and later could never even hope to audition for those swim-trunk and 
Brylcreem beach movies that snake Avalon is making his mint on. I do not insist that the 
judgment and punishing fall are... were connected, Jim. Any man can slip out there. All it 
takes is a second of misplaced respect. Son, it was more than a father's voice, carrying. 
My mother cried out. It was a religious moment. I learned what it means to be a body, 
Jim, just meat wrapped in a sort of flimsy nylon stocking, son, as I fell kneeling and slid 
toward the stretched net, myself seen by me, frame by frame, torn open. I may have to 
burp, belch, son, son, telling you what I learned, son, my... my love, too late, as I left my 
knees' meat behind me, slid, ended in a posture of supplication on my knees' disclosed 
bones with my fingers racquetless hooked through the mesh of the net, across which, 
the net, the sopped dandy had dropped his pricey gut-strung Davis racquet and was 
running toward me with his visor askew and his hands to his cheeks. My father and the 
client he was there to perform for dragged me upright to the palm's infected shade 
where she knelt on the plaid beach-blanket with her knuckles between her teeth, Jim, 



and I felt the religion of the physical that day, at not much more than your age, Jim, 
shoes filling with blood, held under the arms by two bodies big as yours and dragged off 
a public court with two extra lines. It's a pivotal, it's a seminal, religious day when you 
get to both hear and feel your destiny at the same moment, Jim. I got to notice what I'm 
sure you've noticed long ago, I know, I know you've seen me brought home on 
occasions, dragged in the door, under what's called the Influence, son, helped in by 
cabbies at night. I've seen your long shadow grotesquely backlit at the top of the 
house's stairs I helped pay for, boy: how the drunk and the maimed both are dragged 
forward out of the arena like a boneless Christ, one man under each arm, feet dragging, 
eyes on the aether.