9 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT 


The Enfield Tennis Academy has an accredited capacity of 148 junior players — of 
whom 80 are to be male — but an actual Fall Y.D.A.U. population of 95 paying and 41 
scholarship students, so 136, of which 72 are female, right now, for some reason, 
meaning that while there's room for twelve more (preferably full-tuition) junior players, 
there ought ideally to be fully sixteen more males than there are, meaning Charles Tavis 
and Co. are wanting to fill all twelve available spots with males — plus they wouldn't 
exactly mind, is the general scuttlebutt, if a half dozen or so of the better girls left 
before graduation and tried for the Show, simply because housing more than 68 girls 
means putting some in the male dorms, which creates tensions and licensing- and 
conservative-parent-problems, given that coed hall bathrooms are not a good idea what 
with all the adolescent glands firing all over the place. 

It also means that, since there are twice as many male prorectors as female, A.M. drills 
have to be complexly staggered, the boys in two sets of 32, the girls in three of 24, 
which creates problems in terms of early-P.M. classes for the lowest-ranked C-squad 
girls, who drill last. 

Matriculations, gender quotas, recruiting, financial aid, room-assignments, mealtimes, 
rankings, class v. drill schedules, prorector-hiring, accommodating changes in drill 
schedule consequent to a player's movement up or down a squad. It's all the sort of 
thing that's uninteresting unless you're the one responsible, in which case it's 
cholesterol-raisingly stressful and complex. The stress of all the complexities and 
priorities to be triaged and then weighted against one another gets Charles Tavis out of 
bed in the Headmaster's House at an ungodly hour most mornings, his sleep-swollen 
face twitching with permutations. He stands in leather slippers at the living-room 
window, looking southeast past West and Center Courts at the array of A-team players 
assembling stiffly in the gray glow, carrying gear with their heads down and some still 
asleep on their feet, the first bit of snout of the sun protruding through the city's little 
skyline far beyond them, the aluminum glints of river and sea, east, Tavis's hands 
working nervously around the cup of hazlenut decaf that steams upward into his face as 
he holds it, hair unarranged and one side hanging, high forehead up against the 
window's glass so he can feel the mean chill of the dawn just outside, his lips moving 
slightly and without sound, the thing it's not entirely impossible he may have fathered 
asleep up next to the sound system with its claws on its chest and four pillows for 
bradypnea-afflicted breathing that sounds like soft repetitions of the words sky or ski, 
making no unnecessary sound, not eager to wake it and have to interface with it and 
have it look up at him with a terrible calm and accepting knowledge it's quite possible is 
nothing but Tavis's imagination, so lips moving w/o sound but breath and cup's steam 
spreading on the glass, and little icicles from the rainy melt of yesterday's snow hanging 
from the anodized gutters just above the window and seen by Tavis as a distant skyline 



upside-down. In the lightening sky the same two or three clouds seem to move back and 
forth like sentries. The heat comes on with a distant whoom and the glass against his 
forehead trembles slightly. A hiss of low static from the speaker it had fallen into sleep 
without turning off. The A-team's array keeps shifting and melding as they await Schtitt. 
Permutations of complications. 

Tavis watches the boys stretch and confer and sips from the cup with both hands, the 
concerns of the day assembling themselves in a sort of tree-diagram of worry. Charles 
Tavis knows what James Incandenza could not have cared about less: the key to the 
successful administration of a top-level junior tennis academy lies in cultivating a kind of 
reverse-Buddhism, a state of Total Worry. 

So the best E.T.A. players' special perk is they get hauled out of bed at dawn, still 
crusty-eyed and pale with sleep, to drill in the first shift. 

Dawn drills are of course alfresco until they erect and inflate the Lung, which Hal 
Incandenza hopes is soon. His circulation is poor because of tobacco and/or marijuana, 
and even with his DUNLOP-down-both-legs sweatpants and a turtleneck and thick old 
white alpaca tennis jacket that had been his father's and has to be rolled up at the 
sleeves, he's sullen and chilled, Hal is, and by the time they've run the pre-stretch 
sprints up and down the E.T.A. hill four times, swinging their sticks madly in all 
directions and (at A. deLint's dictate) making various half-hearted warrior-noises, Hal is 
both chilled and wet, and his sneakers squelch from dew as he hops in place and looks 
at his breath, wincing as the cold air hits the one bad tooth. 

By the time they're all stretching out, lined up in rows along the service-and baselines, 
flexing and bowing, genuflecting to nothing, changing postures at the sound of a 
whistle, by this time the sky has lightened to the color of Kaopectate. The ATHSCME fans 
are idle and the E.T.A.s can hear birds. Smoke from the stacks of the Sunstrand complex 
is weakly sunlit as it hangs in plumes, completely still, as if painted on the air. Tiny cries 
and a repetitive scream for help come up from someplace downhill to the east, presum¬ 
ably Enfield Marine. This is the one time of day the Charles doesn't look bright blue. The 
pines' birds don't sound any happier than the players. The grounds' non-pines are bare 
and canted at circuitous hillside angles all up and down the hill when they sprint again, 
four more times, then on bad days another four, maybe the most hated part of the day's 
conditioning. Somebody always throws up a little; it's like the drills' reveille. The river at 
dawn is a strip of foil's dull side. Kyle Coyle keeps saying it's co-wo-wo/d. All the lesser 
players are still abed. Today there's multiple retching, from last night's sweets. Hal's 
breath hangs before his face until he moves through it. Sprints produce the sick sound 
of much squelching; everyone wishes the hill's grass would die. 

Twenty-four girls are drilled in groups of six on four of the Center Courts. The 32 boys 
(minus, rather ominously, J. J. Penn) are split by rough age into fours and take a semi- 
staggered eight of the East Courts. Schtitt is up in his little observational crow's nest, a 
sort of apse at the end of the iron transom players call the Tower that extends west to 
east over the centers of all three sets of courts and terminates w/ the nest high above 
the Show Courts. He has a chair and an ashtray up there. Sometimes from the courts 
you can see him leaning over the railing, tapping the edge of the bullhorn with his 
weatherman's pointer; from the West and Center Courts the rising sun behind him gives 



his white head a pinkish corona. When he's seated you just see misshapen smoke-rings 
coming up out of the nest and moving off with the wind. The sound of the bullhorn is 
scarier when you can't see him. The waffled iron stairs leading up to the transom are 
west of the West Courts, all the way across from the nest, so sometimes Schtitt paces 
back and forth along the transom with his pointer behind his back, his boots ringing out 
on the iron. Schtitt seems immune to all weather and always dresses the same for drills: 
the warm-ups and boots. When the E.T.A.s' strokes or play's being filmed for study, 
Mario Incandenza is positioned on the railing of Schtitt's nest, leaning way out and 
filming down, his police lock protruding into empty air, with somebody beefy assigned 
to stand behind him and grip the back of the Velcro vest: it always scares hell out of Hal 
because you can never see Dunkel or Nwangi behind Mario and it always looks like he's 
leaning way out to dive Bolex-first down onto Court 7's net. 

Except during periods of disciplinary conditioning, alfresco A.M. drills work like this. A 
prorector is at each relevant court with two yellow Ball-Hopper-brand baskets of used 
balls, plus a ball machine, which machine looks like an open footlocker with a blunt 
muzzle at one end pointed across the net at a quartet of boys and connected by long 
orange industrial cords to a three-prong outdoor outlet at the base of each light-pole. 
Some of the light-poles cast long thin shadows across the courts as soon as the sun is 
strong enough for there to be shadows; in summertime players try to sort of huddle in 
the thin lines of shade. Ortho Stice keeps yawning and shivering; John Wayne wears a 
small cold smile. Hal hops up and down in his capacious jacket and plum turtleneck and 
looks at his breath and tries a la Lyle to focus very intently on the pain of his tooth 
without judging it as bad or good. K. D. Coyle, out of the infirmary after the weekend, 
opines that he doesn't see why the better players' reward for hard slogging to the upper 
rungs is dawn drills while for instance Pemulis and the Vikemeister et al. are still 
horizontal and sawing logs. Coyle says this every morning. Stice tells him he's surprised 
at how little they've missed him. Coyle is from the small Tucson AZ suburb of Erythema 
and claims to have thin desert blood and special sensitivity to the wet chill of Boston's 
dawn. The WhataBurger Jr. Invitational is a sort of double-edged Thanksgiving 
homecoming for Coyle, who at thirteen was lured from Tucson's own Rancho Vista Golf 
and Tennis Academy by promises of self-transcendence from Schtitt. 

Drills work like this. Eight different emphases on eight different courts. Each quartet 
starts at a different court and rotates around. The top four traditionally start drills on 
the first court: backhands down the line, two boys to a side. Corbett Thorp lays down 
squares of electrician's tape at the court's corners and they are strongly encouraged to 
hit the balls into the little squares. Hal hits with Stice, Coyle with Wayne; Axford's been 
sent down with Shaw and Struck for some reason. Second court: forehands, same deal. 
Stice consistently misses the square and gets a low-pH rejoinder from Tex Watson, 
hatless and pattern-balding at twenty-seven. Hal's tooth hurts and his ankle is stiff and 
the cold balls come off his strings with a dead sound like chung. Tiny bratwursts of 
smoke ascend rhythmically from Schtitt's little nest. Third court is 'Butterflies,' a 
complex VAPS deal where Hal hits a backhand down the line to Stice while Coyle 
forehands it to Wayne and then Wayne and Stice cross-court the balls back to Hal and 
Coyle, who have to switch sides without bashing into each other and hit back down the 



line now to Wayne and Stice, respectively. Wayne and Hal amuse themselves by making 
their cross-court balls collide on every fifth exchange or so — this is known around 
E.T.A. as 'atom-smashing' and is understandably hard to do — and the collided balls 
sprong wildly out onto the other practice courts, and Rik Dunkel is less amused than 
Wayne and Hal are, so, nicely warm now and arms singing, they're shunted quickly onto 
the fourth court: volleys for depth, then for angle, then lobs and overheads, which latter 
drill can be converted into a disciplinary Puker if a prorector's feeding you the lobs: the 
overhead drill's called Tap & Whack': Hal pedals back, terribly ankle-conscious, jumps, 
kicks out, nails Slice's lob, then has to sprint up and tap the net's tape with his Dunlop's 
head as Stice lobs deep again, and Hal has to backpedal again and jump and kick and hit 
it, and so on. Then Hal and Coyle, both sucking wind after twenty and trying to stand up 
straight, feed lobs to Wayne and Stice, neither of whom is fatiguable as far as anyone 
can tell. You have to kick out on overheads to keep your balance in the air. Overhead, 
Schtitt uses an unamplified bullhorn and careful enunciation to call out for everyone to 
hear that Mr. revenant Hal Incandenza was letting the ball get the little much behind 
him on overheads, fears of the ankle maybe. Hal raises his stick in acknowledgment 
without looking up. To hang in past age fourteen here is to become immune to 
humiliation from staff. Coyle tells Hal between the lobs they send up he'd love to see 
Schtitt have to do twenty Tap & Whacks in a row. They're all flushed to a shine, all chill 
washed off, noses running freely and heads squeaking with blood, the sun well above 
the sea's dull glint and starting to melt the frozen slush from I.-Day's snow and rain that 
night-custodians had swept into little wedged lines up against the lengthwise fences, 
which grimy wedges are now starting to melt and run. There's still no movement in the 
Sunstrand stacks' plumes. The watching prorectors stand easy with their legs apart and 
their arms crossed over their racquets' faces. The same three or four booger-shaped 
clouds seem to pass back and forth overhead, and when they cover the sun people's 
breath reappears. Stice blows on his racquet-hand and cries out thinly for the inflation 
of the Lung. Mr. A. F. deLint ranges behind the fence with his clipboard and whistle, 
blowing his nose. The girls behind him are too bundled up to be worth watching, their 
hair rubber-banded into little bouncing tails. 

Fifth court: serves to both corners of both boxes, catching each others' serves and 
serving them back. First serves, second serves, slice serves, shank serves, and back- 
snapping American Twist serves that Stice begs off of, telling the prorector — Neil 
Hartigan, who's 2 m. tall and of so few words everybody fears him by default — he's 
having lower spasms from a mispositioned bed. Then Coyle — he of the weak bladder 
and suspicious discharge — gets excused to go back into the eastern tree-line out of 
sight of the distaffs and pee, so the other three get a minute to jog over to the pavilion 
and stand with their hands on their hips and breathe and drink Gatorade out of little 
conic paper cups you can't put down til they're empty. The way you flush out a cottony 
mouth between drills is you take a mouthful of Gatorade and puff out your cheeks to 
make a globe of liquid that you mangle with your teeth and tongue, then lean out and 
spit out into the grass and take another drink for real. The sixth court is returns of serve 
down the line, down the center, cross-court for depth, then for placement, then for 
deep placement, w/ more taped squares; then chipped center- and cross-returns 



against a server who follows his serve to the net. The server practices half-volleys off the 
chips, although Wayne and Stice are so fast that they're on top of the net by the time 
the return gets to them and they can volley it away at chest-height. Wayne drills with 
the casual economy of somebody who's in about second gear. The urns' dispensers' 
cups can't stand up, their bottoms are pointy and they'll spill any liquid still in them, is 
why you have to empty them. Between squads Harde's guys will sweep the pavilion of 
dozens of cones. 

Then, blessedly, on the seventh court, physically undemanding Finesse drills. Drops, 
drops for angles, topspin lobs, extreme angles, drops for extreme angles, then restful 
microtennis, tennis inside the service lines, very soft and precise, radical angles much 
encouraged. Touch- and artistry-wise nobody comes close to Hal in microtennis. By this 
time Hal's turtleneck is soaked through under the alpaca jacket, and exchanging it for a 
sweatshirt out of the gear bag is a kind of renewal. What wind there is down here is out 
of the south. The temperature is now probably in the low 10's C.; the sun's been up an 
hour, and you can almost see the light-pole and transom shadows rotating slowly 
northwest. The Sunstrand stacks' plumes stand there cigarette-straight, not even 
seeming to spread at the top; the sky is going a glassy blue. 

No (tennis) balls required on the final court. Wind sprints. Probably the less said about 
wind sprints the better. Then more Gatorade, which Hal and Coyle are breathing too 
hard to enjoy, as Schtitt comes slowly down from the transom. It takes a while. You can 
hear his steel-toed boots hit each iron step. There is something creepy about a very fit 
older man, to say nothing of jackboots w/ Fila warm-ups of claret-colored silk. He's 
coming this way, both hands behind his back and the pointer poking out to the side. 
Schtitt's crew cut and face are nacreous as he moves east in the yellowing A.M. light. 
This is sort of the signal for all the quartets to gather at the Show Courts. Behind them 
the girls are still hitting groundstrokes in baroque combinations, much high-pitched 
grunting and the lifeless chung of cold hit balls. Three 14's are made to squeegee the 
more extrusive melt back into the little banks of frozen leaves along the fence. At the 
horizon to the north a bulbous cone of picric clouds that gets taller by the hour as the 
Methuen-Andover border's mammoth effectuators force northern MA's combined 
oxides north against some sort of upper-air resistance, it looks like. You can see little 
bits of glitter from broken monitor-glass in the frozen stuff up by the fences behind 6-9, 
and one or two curved shards of floppy disk, and they're a troubling sight, Penn being 
absent amid troubling leg-rumors, Postal-Weight with two black eyes and his nose 
covered with horizontal bandages that are starting to loosen and curl at the edges from 
sweat, and Otis P. Lord alleged to have come back from the emergency room at St. 
Elizabeth's last night with the Hitachi monitor over his head, still, its removal, with all 
the sharp teeth of the broken screen's glass pointing at key parts of Lord's throat, 
apparently calling for the sort of esoteric expertise you have to fly in by private medical 
jet, according to Axford. 

They all get on the outside of three cones of Gatorade, bent or squatting, sucking 
wind, while Schtitt stands at a sort of Parade Rest with his weatherman's pointer behind 
his back and shares overall impressions with the players on the morning's work thus far. 
Certain players are singled out for special mention or humiliation. Then more wind 



sprints. Then a brief like strategy-clinic-thing from Corbett Thorp on how approach shots 
down the line aren't always the very best tactic, and why. Thorp's a first-rate tennis 
mind, but his terrible stutter makes the boys so uncomfortable they have a hard time 
listening. 181 

The whole first shift's on the eighth court for the final conditioning drills. 182 First are 
Star Drills. A dozen-plus boys on either side of the net, behind the baselines. Form a line. 
Go one at a time. Go: run up the side line, touch the net with your stick; then backwards 
to the outside corner of the service box and then forward to touch the net again; 
backward to the middle of the service box, forward to touch net; back to the baseline's 
little jut of centerline, up to net; service box's other outside corner, net, baseline's 
corner, net, then turn and run like hell for the corner you started from. Schtitt has a 
stopwatch. There's a janitorial bucket 183 placed in the doubles alley by the finish point, 
for potential distress. They each do the Star Drill three times. Hal has 41 seconds and 38 
and 48, which is average both for him and for any seventeen-year-old with a resting 
pulse rate in the high 50s. John Wayne's low of 33 occurs on his third Star, and he stops 
dead at the finish point and always just stands there, never bending or walking it off. 
Stice gets a 29 and everyone gets very excited until Schtitt says he was slow starting the 
watch: the arthritis in a thumb. Everyone but Wayne and Stice uses the retch-bucket in a 
sort of pro forma way. Sixteen-year-old Petropolis Kahn, a.k.a. 'W.M.' for 'Woolly 
Mammoth' because he's so hairy, gets a 60 and then a 59 and then pitches forward onto 
the hard surface and lies very still. Tony Nwangi tells people to walk around him. 

The cardiovascular finale is Side-to-Sides, conceived by van der Meer in the B.S. '60s 
and demonic in its simplicity. Again split into fours on eight courts. For the top 18's, 
prorector R. Dunkel at net with an armful of balls and more in a hopper beside him, 
hitting fungoes, one to the forehand corner and then one to the backhand corner and 
then farther out to the forehand corner and so on. And on. Hal Incandenza is expected 
at least to get a racquet on each ball; for Stice and Wayne the expectations are higher. A 
very unpleasant drill fatigue-wise, and for Hal also ankle-wise, what with all the stopping 
and reversing. Hal wears two bandages over a left ankle he shaves way more often than 
his upper lip. Over the bandages goes an Air-Stirrup inflatable ankle brace that's very 
lightweight but looks a bit like a medieval torture-implement. It was in a stop-and- 
reverse move much like Side-to-Sides 184 that Hal tore all the soft left-ankle tissue he 
then owned, at fifteen, in his ankle, at Atlanta's Easter Bowl, in the third round, which 
he was losing anyway. Dunkel goes fairly easy on Hal, at least on the first two go- 
arounds, because of the ankle. Hal's going to be seeded in at least the top 4 at the 
WhataBurger Inv. in a couple weeks, and woe to the prorector who lets Hal get hurt the 
way Hal let some of his Little Buddies get hurt yesterday. 

What's potentially demonic about Side-to-Sides is that the duration of the drill and 
pace and angle of the fungoes to be chased down from side to side are entirely at the 
prorector's discretion. Prorector Rik Dunkel, a former 16's-doubles runner-up at Jr. 
Wimbledon and a decent enough guy, the son of some kind of plastic-packaging-systems 
tycoon on the South Shore, tied with Thorp for brightest of the prorectors (more or less 
by default), regarded as kind of a mystic because he refers people sometimes to Lyle 
and has been observed sitting at community gatherings with his eyes closed but not 



sleeping... but the point is a decent enough guy but not much into any kind of exchange 
of quarter. He seems to have received instructions to put the particular hurt on Ortho 
Stice this time, and by his third go-around Stice is trying to weep without breath and 
mewing for his aunts. 185 But anyway everybody goes through Sides-to-Sides three times. 
Even Petropolis Kahn staggers through them, who after Stars had had to be sort of 
lugged over by Stephan Wagenknecht and Jeff Wax with his Nikes dragging behind him 
and his head swinging free on his neck and given kind of a swingset-shove to get started. 
Hal feels for Kahn, who's not fat but is in the Schacht-type mold, very thick and solid, 
except also carrying extra weight in terms of leg-and-back-hair, and who always tires 
easily no matter how hard he conditions. Kahn makes it through but stays bent over the 
distress-bucket long after the third go-around, staring into it, and stays that way while 
everybody else removes more soaked bottom layers of clothing and accepts clean 
towels from a halfway-house part-time black girl with a towel cart, and picks up balls. 186 

It is 0720h. and they are through with the active part of dawn drills. Nwangi, at the 
edge of the hillside, is whistling the next shift over for opening sprints. Schtitt shares 
more overall impressions as minimum-wage aides dispense Kleenex and paper cones. 
Nwangi's reedy voice carries; he's telling the B's he wishes to see nothing but assholes 
and elbows on these sprints. It's unclear to Hal what this might connote. The A-players 
have formed those ragged rows behind the baseline again, and Schtitt paces back and 
forth. 

'Am seeing sluggish drilling, by sluggards. Not meaning insults. This is the fact. Motions 
are gone through. Barely minimal efforts. Cold, yes? The cold hands and nose with 
mucus? Thoughts on getting through, going in, hot showers, water very hot. A meal. The 
thoughts are drifting toward the comfort of ending. Too cold to demand the total, yes? 
Master Chu, too cold for tennis at the high level, yes?' 

Chu: 'It does seem pretty cold out, sir.' 

'Ah.' Pacing back and forth with about-faces at every tenth step, stopwatch around his 
neck, pipe and pouch and pointer in his hands behind his back, nodding to himself, 
clearly wishing he had a third hand so he could stroke his white chin, pretending to 
ruminate. Every A.M. essentially the same, except when Schtitt does the females and 
the males get dressed down by deLint. All the older boys' eyes are glazed with 
repetition. Hal's tooth gives off little electric shivers with each inbreath, and he feels 
slightly unwell. When he moves his head slightly the monitor-glass bits' glitter shifts and 
dances along the opposite fence in a sort of sickening way. 

'Ah.' Turns crisply toward them, looking briefly skyward. 'And when is hot? Too pretty 
hot for the total self on the court? The other hand of the spectrum? Ach. Is always 
something that is too. Master Incandenza who cannot quickly get behind lob's descent 
so weight can move forvart into overhand, 187 please tell your thinking: it is always hot or 
cold, yes?' 

A small smile, "s been our general observation out there, sir.' 

'So then then so. Master Chu, from California's temperance regions?' 

Chu brings down his hankie. 'I guess we have to learn to adjust to conditions, sir, I 
believe is what you're saying.' 

A full sharp half-turn to face the group. 'Is what I am not saying, young LaMont Chu, is 



why you cease to seem to give total effort of self since you begin with the clipping 
pictures of great professional figures for your adhesive tape and walls. No? Because, 
privileged gentlemen and boys I am saying, is always something that is too. Cold. Hot. 
Wet and dry. Very bright sun and you see the purple dots. Very bright hot and you have 
no salt. Outside is wind, the insects which like the sweat. Inside is smell of heaters, echo, 
being jammed in together, tarp is overdose to baseline, not enough of room, bells inside 
clubs which ring the hour loudly to distract, clunk of machines vomiting sweet cola for 
coins. Inside roof too low for the lob. Bad lighting, so. Or outside: the bad surface. Oh no 
look no: crabgrass in cracks along baseline. Who could give the total, with crabgrass. 
Look here is low net high net. Opponent's relatives heckle, opponent cheats, linesman in 
semifinal is impaired or cheats. You hurt. You have the injury. Bad knee and back. Hurt 
groin area from not stretching as asked. Aches of elbow. Eyelash in eye. The throat is 
sore. A too pretty girl in audience, watching. Who could play like this? Big crowd 
overwhelming or too small to inspire. Always something.' 

His turns as he paces are crisp and used to punctuate. 'Adjust. Adjust? Stay the same. 
No? Is not stay the same? It is cold? It is wind? Cold and wind is the world. Outside, yes? 
On the tennis court the you the player: this is not where there is cold wind. I am saying. 
Different world mside. World built inside cold outside world of wind breaks the wind, 
shelters the player, you, if you stay the same, stay inside.' Pacing gradually faster, the 
turns becoming pirouettic. The older kids stare straight ahead; some of the younger 
follow every move of the pointer with wide eyes. Trevor Axford is bent at the waist and 
moving his head slightly, trying to get the sweat dripping off his face to spell something 
out on the surface. Schtitt is silent for two fast about-faces, ranging before them, 
tapping his jaw with the pointer. 'Not ever I think this adjusting. To what, this adjusting? 
This world inside is the same, always, if you stay there. This is what we are making, no? 
New type citizen. Not of cold and wind outside. Citizens of this sheltering second world 
we are working to show you every dawn, no? To make your introduction.' The Big 
Buddies translate Schtitt into accessible language for the littler kids, is a big part of their 
assignment. 

'Borders of court for singles Mr. Rader are what.' 

'Twenty-four by eight sir,' sounding hoarse and thin. 

'So. Second world without cold or purple dots of bright for you is 23.8 meters, 8 I think 
.2 meters. Yes? In that world is joy because there is shelter of something else , of 
purpose past sluggardly self and complaints about uncomfort. I am speaking to not just 
LaMont Chu of the temperance world. You have a chance to occur, playing. No? To 
make for you this second world that is always the same: there is in this world you, and in 
the hand a tool, there is a ball, there is opponent with his tool, and always only two of 
you, you and this other, inside the lines, with always a purpose to keep this world alive, 
yes?' The pointer-motions through all this become too orchestral and intricate to 
describe. 'This second world inside the lines. Yes? Is this adjusting? This is not adjusting. 
This is not adjusting to ignore cold and wind and tired. Not ignoring "as if." Is no cold. Is 
no wind. No cold wind where you occur. No? Not "adjust to conditions." Make this 
second world inside the world: here there are no conditions.' 

Looks around. 



'So put a lid on it about the fucking cold,' says deLint, with his clipboard under his arm 
and his strangler-sized hands in his pockets, hopping a little in place. 

Schtitt is looking around. Like most Germans outside popular entertainment, he gets 
quieter when he wants to impress or menace. (There are very few shrill Germans, 
actually.) 'If it is hard,' he says softly, hard to hear because of the rising wind, 'difficult, 
for you to move between the two worlds, from cold hot wind and sun to this inside 
place inside the lines where is always the same,' he says, seeming now to study the 
weatherman's pointer he holds down and out with both hands, 'it can be arranged for 
you gentlemen not to leave, ever here, this world inside the lines of court. You know. 
Can stay here until there is citizenship. Right here.' The pointer is pointed at the spots 
they're standing at breathing and blotting their faces and blowing their noses. 'Can 
today put up Testar Lung, for world's shelter. Sleep bags. Meals brought to you. Never 
across the lines. Never leave the court. Study here. A bucket for hygienic needs. At 
Gymnasium Kaiserslautern where I am privileged boy who whining about cold wind, we 
live inside tennis court for months, to learn to live inside. Very lucky days when they 
bring us meals. Not possible to cross a line for months of living.' 

Left-hander Brian van Vleck picks a bad moment to break wind. 

Schtitt shrugs, half-turning away from them to look off somewhere. 'Or else leave here 
into large external world where is cold and pain without purpose or tool, eyelash in eye 
and pretty girl — not worry anymore about how to occur.' Looks around. 'No one is a 
prisoner here. Who would like to escape into large world? Master Sweeny?' 

Little eyes down. 

'Mr. Coyle, with always too co-wold to give total?' 

Coyle studies the vasculature on the inside of his elbow with deep interest as he 
shakes his head. John Wayne is joggling his head around like a Raggedy-Andy-head, 
stretching out the neck hardware. John Wayne is notoriously tight and can't touch 
anything below the knee with straight legs during stretches. 

'Mr. Peter Beak with always the weeping to home on the telephone?' 

The twelve-year-old says Not Me Sir several times. 

Hal very subtly shoots in a small plug of Kodiak. Aubrey deLint has his arms crossed 
over the clipboard and is looking around beadily like a crow. Hal Incandenza has an 
almost obsessive dislike for deLint, whom he tells Mario he sometimes cannot quite 
believe is even real, and tries to get to the side of, to see whether deLint has a true z 
coordinate or is just a cutout or projection. The kids of the next shift are walking 
downhill and sprinting back up and walking down, warrior-whooping without conviction. 
The other male prorectors are drinking cones of Gatorade, clustered in the little 
pavilion, feet up on patio-chairs, Dunkel's and Watson's eyes closed. Neil Hartigan, in his 
traditional Tahitian shirt and Gaugin-motif sweater, has to stay sitting down to fit under 
the Gatorade awning. 

'Simple,' Schtitt shrugs, so that the upraised pointer seems to stab at the sky. 'Hit,' he 
suggests. 'Move. Travel lightly. Occur. Be here. Not in bed or shower or over 
baconschteam, in the mind. Be here in total. Is nothing else. Learn. Try. Drink your green 
juice. Perform the Butterfly exercises on all eight of these courts, please, to warm down. 
Mr. deLint, please to bring them back down, make sure of stretching the groins. 



Gentlemen: hit tennis balls. Fire at your will. Use a head. You are not arms. Arm in the 
real tennis is like wheels of vehicles. Not engine. Legs: not either. Where is where you 
apply for citizenship in second world Mr. consciousness of ankle Incandenza, our 
revenant?' 

Hal can lean out and spit in a way that isn't insolent. 'Head, sir.' 

'Excuse?' 

'The human head, sir, if I got your thrust. Where I'm going to occur as a player. The 
game's two heads' one world. One world, sir.' 

Schtitt sweeps the pointer in an ironic morendo arc and laughs aloud: 

'Play.' 


Part of Don Gately's live-in Staff job is that he hurtles here and there on selected 
Ennet House errands. He cooks the communal supper on weekdays, 188 which means he 
does the House's weekly shopping, which means that at least a couple times a week he 
gets to take Pat Montesian's black 1964 Ford Aventura and drive to the Purity Supreme 
Market. The Aventura is an antique variant of the Mustang, the sort of car you usually 
only see waxed and static in car shows with somebody in a bikini pointing at it. Pat's is 
functional and mint-reconditioned — her shadowy husband with something like ten 
years sober being big into cars — with such a wicked nice multilayer paint job that its 
black has the bottomless quality of water at night. It has two different alarm systems 
and a red metal bar you're supposed to lock across the steering wheel when you get 
out. The engine sounds more like a jet engine than a piston engine, plus there's a scoop 
poking periscopically from the hood, and for Gately the vehicle's so terrifically tight and 
sleek it's like being strapped into a missile and launched at the site of a domestic errand. 
He can barely fit in the driver's seat. The steering wheel is about the size of an old video¬ 
arcade game's steering wheel, and the thin canted six-speed shift is encased in a red 
leather baglet that smells strongly of leather. The height of the car's roof compromises 
Gately's driving-posture, and his right ham like exceeds the seat and squeezes against 
the gearshift so that shifting pinches his hip. He does not care. Some of the profoundest 
spiritual feelings of his sobriety so far are for this car. He'd drive this car if the driver's 
seat was just a sharp pointy spike, he told Johnette Foltz. Johnette Foltz is the other live- 
in Staffer, though between ultra-rabid Commitment-activity in NA and a somehow 
damaged NA fiance she spends a lot of time pushing around places in a wicker 
wheelchair, she's around Ennet House less and less now, and there are rumblings about 
a possible replacement, which Gately and the heterosexual male residents pray daily 
will be the leggy alumna and part-time counselor Danielle Steenbok, who's rumored also 
to attend Sex and Love Addicts Anonymous, which engages everyone's imagination to 
the max. 

It's a mark of serious regard and questionable judgment that Director Pat M. lets Don 
Gately drive her priceless Aventura, even just to like the Metro Food Bank or Purity 
Supreme, because Gately lost his license more or less permanently back in the Year of 
the Whisper-Quiet Maytag Dishmaster for getting pinched on a DUI in Peabody on a 
license that had already been suspended for a previous DUI in Lowell. This was not the 



only Loss Don Gately incurred as his chemical careers moved toward their life-reversing 
climax. Once every couple months now, still, he has to put on his brown dress slacks and 
slightly irregular green sportcoat from Brighton Budget Large 'N Tall Menswear and take 
the commuter rail up to selected District Court venues on the North Shore and meet 
with his various P.D.s and P.O.s and caseworkers and sometimes appear briefly up in 
front of Judges and Review Boards to review the progress of his sobriety and 
reparations. When he first came to Ennet House last year, Gately had Bad-Check and 
Forgery issues, he had a Malicious Destruction of Property issue, plus two D&Ds and a 
bullshit Public Urination out of Tewksbury. He had a Break-and-Enter from a silent- 
alarmed Peabody mansion where he and a colleague got pinched before anything could 
get promoted. He had a Possession With Intent from 38 50-mg. tablets of Demerol 189 in 
a Pez container which he'd shoved down into the crack of the Peabody Finest's cruiser's 
back seat, but which got found anyway on the routine post-transport cruiser-search all 
cops perform when the arrestee's pupils are unresponsive both to light and to head- 
slaps. 

There was, too, of course, a certain darker issue, vis-a-vis a certain upscale Brookline 
home whose late owner had been eulogized at terrifying length and headline-size in 
both the Globe and Herald. After eight months of indescribable psychic cringing, waiting 
for the legal footwear to drop on the Nuck-VIP issue — toward the end of his drug-use 
Gately'd gotten sloppy and crazy and stuck idiotically with a method of straight meter¬ 
shunting that he'd learned up at MCl-Billerica and was pretty sure now constituted a 
signature Gately M.O., since the older guy that'd taught it to him in the Billerica metal- 
shop had subsequently got out and gone to Utah and died of a morphine overdose (and 
like who on earth hopes to get reliable morphine in fucking Utah?) over two years ago 
— after eight months of cringing and nail-biting, the last couple months of the torment 
in Ennet House — even though the House's D.S.A.S.-license put it legally off-limits to all 
constabulary without Pat Montesian's physical presence and notarized permission — 
after he was down to the cuticles on all ten digits, Gately had very discreetly 
approached a certain Percodan-devoted court stenographer an old girlfriend had once 
dealt to, and had the guy make equally discreet inquiries, and found that the potential 
Murder-2 investigation of the botched burglary 190 had been taken over — pace the loud 
howls of a certain remorseless Revere A.D.A. — by something federal the addled 
stenographer called 'Non-Specific Services Bureau,' whereupon the case vanished from 
any sort of investigative scene the stenographer could make inquiries about, though 
quiet rumor had it that current suspicions were being directed at certain shadowy 
Nucko-political bodies all the way up in Quebec, far north of the Enfield MA where 
Gately had been cringing his way to nightly AA meetings with his fingers in his mouth. 

Most of the cases Gately had had pending his P.D. had gotten Closed Without 
Finding, 191 contingent on Gately's entering long-term treatment and maintaining 
chemical abstinence and submitting to random urinalyses and making biweekly 
reparation payments out of the pathetic paychecks he earned cleaning shit and sperm 
under Stavros Lobokulas and now also cooking and live-in-Staffing at Ennet House. The 
only issue not resolved on a Blue-File deferral was the business of driving with a DUI- 
suspended license. In the Commonwealth of MA, this issue carries a mandatory 90-day 



bit, as in like the penalty's written right into the statute; and the case's P.D. has been up¬ 
front with Gately about it's only a matter of the time of the wheels' slow judicial grind 
before some judge Red-Files the issue and the case and Gately has to do the bit at 
someplace MCl-Minimum like Concord or Deer Island. Gately isn't too hinked about 90 
inside. At twenty-four he'd done 17 months at Billerica for assaulting two bouncers in a 
nightclub — it was more like he'd beaten the second bouncer bloody with the 
unconscious body of the first — and he knew quite well he could get by in a Common¬ 
wealth lockdown. He was too big to fuck or fuck with and not interested in fucking with 
anyone else: he did his time stand-up and gave nobody any provoking cause; and when 
the first couple hard guys had come after him for his canteen cigarettes he'd laughed it 
off with ferocious jolliness, and when they came back a second time Gately beat them 
half to death in the corridor behind the weight room where he could be sure plenty of 
other guys could hear it, and after that one incident was out of the way he could simply 
get by and not get fucked with. Gately now was hinked only about the prospect of 
getting just one or two AA meetings a week in jail — the only meetings sober inmates 
get are when an area Group comes in on an Institutional Commitment, which Gately's 
been on — when Demerol and Talwin and good old weed are almost easier to get in jail 
than in the outside world. Gately cringed now only at the thought of the Sergeant at 
Arms, the distinguished-looking shepherd guy. Going back to ingesting Substances had 
become his biggest fear. Even Gately can tell this is a major psychic turn-around. He tells 
the newer residents right up front that AA's somehow gotten him by the mental curlies: 
he'll now go to literally Any Lengths to stay clean. 

He'll tell them right out that he'd first come to Ennet House only to keep out of jail, 
and hadn't had much interest or hope about actually staying clean for any length of 
time; and he'd been up-front with Pat Montesian about this during his application 
interview. The grim honesty about his disinterest and hopelessness was one reason Pat 
even let such a clearly bad-news specimen into the House on nothing but a lukewarm 
referral from a P.O. up at the 5th District office in Peabody. Pat told Gately that grim 
honesty and hopelessness were the only things you need to start recovering from 
Substance-addiction, but that without these qualities you were totally up the creek. 
Desperation helped also, she said. Gately scratched at her dog's stomach and said he 
wasn't sure if he was desperate about anything except wanting to somehow stop 
getting in trouble for things he usually afterward couldn't even remember he did them. 
The dog trembled and shuddered and its eyes rolled up as Gately, who hadn't been told 
about Pat's thing about wanting her dogs petted, rubbed its scabby stomach. Pat had 
said like well that was enough, that desire for the shitstorm to end. 192 Gately said her 
dog sure did like having its stomach rubbed, and Pat explained that the dog was 
epileptic, and said that just a desire to stop blacking out was more than enough to start 
with. She pulled some Commonwealth Substance-Abuse study in a black plastic binder 
off a long black plastic bookshelf filled with black plastic binders. It turned out Pat 
Montesian liked the color black a lot. She was dressed — really kind of overdressed, for 
a halfway house — in black leather pants and a black shirt of silk or something silky. 
Outside the bay window a Green Line train was laboring up the first Enfield hill in the 
late-summer rain. The downhill view from the bay window over Pat's black lacquer or 



enamelish desk was like the only spectacular thing about Ennet House, which was 
otherwise a wicked awful dump. Pat made a sound against the binder with a Svelte nail- 
extension and said that in this state study right here, conducted in the Year of the Tucks 
Medicated Pad, over 60% of the inmates serving Life sentences in hellish MCl-Walpole 
and not disputing that they'd done what they'd done to get in there nevertheless had no 
memory of having done it, whatever got them in there. For Life. None. Gately had to 
have her run it by him a couple times before he isolated her point. They'd been in 
blackouts. Pat said a blackout was where you continued to function — sometimes 
disastrously — but weren't aware later of what you did. It's like your mind wasn't in 
possession of your body, and it was usually brought on by alcohol but could also be 
brought on by chronic use of other Substances, synthetic narcotics among them. Gately 
said he couldn't recall ever having a real blackout, and Pat M. got it but didn't laugh. The 
dog was heaving and quivering with its legs spronged out to all points of the compass 
and kind of spasming, and Gately didn't know whether to quit rubbing on it. To be 
honest he didn't know what epilepsy was but suspected Pat was not referring to the 
woman's leg-shaver thing his totally alcoholic past girlfriend Pamela Hoffman-Jeep used 
to scream in the bathroom when she used. Everything mental for Gately was kind of 
befogged and prone to misprision for well into his first year clean. 

Pat Montesian was both pretty and not. She was in maybe her late thirties. She'd 
supposedly been this young and pretty and wealthy socialite out on the Cape until her 
husband had divorced her for being a nearly fullblown alcoholic, which seemed like 
abandonment and didn't improve her subsequent drinking one jot. She'd been in and 
out of rehabs and halfway places in her twenties, but then it wasn't until she'd almost 
died from a stroke during the D.T.s one A.M. that she'd been able to Surrender and 
Come In with the requisite hopeless desperation, etc. Gately didn't wince when he 
heard about Pat's stroke because his mom hadn't had D.T.s or a classic stroke, but 
rather a cirrhotic hemorrhage that made her choke and deprived her brain of oxygen 
and had irreparably vegetabilized her brain. The two cases were totally, like, apart in his 
mind. Pat M. was never in any way a mother-figure for Gately. Pat liked to smile and 
say, when residents pissed and moaned about their own addictions' Losses during the 
weekly House Community Meeting, she'd nod and smile and say that for her, the stroke 
had been far and away the best thing that's ever happened to her because it enabled 
her to finally Surrender. She'd come to Ennet House in an electric wheelchair at thirty- 
two and been unable to communicate except via like Morse-Code blinks or something 
for the first six months, 193 but had even without use of her arms demonstrated a 
willingness to try and eat a rock when the founding Guy Who Didn't Even Use His First 
Name told her to, using her torso and neck to like chop downwardly at the rock and 
chipping both incisors (you can still see the caps at the corners), and had gotten sober, 
and remarried a different and older South Shore like trillionaire with what sounded like 
psychotic kids, and but regained an unexpected amount of function, and had been 
working at the House ever since. The right side of her face was still pulled way over in 
this sort of rictus, and her speech took Gately some getting used to — it sounded like 
she was still loaded all the time, a kind of overenunciated slurring. The half of her face 
that wasn't rictusized was very pretty, and she had very long pretty red hair, and a 



sexually credible body even though her right arm had atrophied into a kind of semi¬ 
claw 194 and the right hand was strapped into this black plastic brace to keep its nail- 
extensioned fingers from curling into her palm; and Pat walked with a dignified but 
godawful lurch, dragging a terribly thin right leg in black leather pants behind her like 
something hanging on to her that she was trying to get away from. 

During his residency, she'd gone personally with Gately on most of his bigger court- 
dates, driving him up to the North Shore in the killer Aventura with its Handicapped 
plates — she because of the neurological right-leg thing literally had a lead foot, and 
drove all the time like a maniac, and Gately had usually almost wet himself on Rte. 1 — 
and she'd throw all Ennet House's substantial respect and clout behind him with Judges 
and Boards, until every issue that could be resolved without finding was Blue-Filed. 
Gately still couldn't figure out why all the personal extra attention and help. It was like 
he'd been Pat M.'s biggest favorite among the residents last year. She did have favorites 
and nonfavorites; it was probably unavoidable. Annie Parrot and the counselors and 
House Manager always had their particular favorites, too, so it all tended to work out 
square. 

About four months into his Ennet House residency, the agonizing desire to ingest 
synthetic narcotics had been mysteriously magically removed from Don Gately, just like 
the House Staff and the Crocodiles at the White Flag Group had said it would if he 
pounded out the nightly meetings and stayed minimally open and willing to persistently 
ask some extremely vague Higher Power to remove it. The desire. They said to get 
creakily down on his mammoth knees in the A.M. every day and ask God As He 
Understood Him to remove the agonizing desire, and to hit the old knees again at night 
before sack and thank this God-ish figure for the Substanceless day just ended, if he got 
through it. They suggested he keep his shoes and keys under the bed to help him 
remember to get on his knees. The only times Gately had ever been on his knees before 
were to throw up or mate, or shunt a low-on-the-wall alarm, or if somebody got lucky 
during a beef and landed one near Gately's groin. He didn't have any God- or J.C.- 
background, and the knee-stuff seemed like the limpest kind of dickless pap, and he felt 
like a true hypocrite just going through the knee-motions that he went through faithfully 
every A.M. and P.M., without fail, motivated by a desire to get loaded so horrible that 
he often found himself humbly praying for his head to just finally explode already and 
get it over with. Pat had said it didn't matter at this point what he thought or believed or 
even said. All that mattered was what he did. If he did the right things, and kept doing 
them for long enough, what Gately thought and believed would magically change. Even 
what he said. She'd seen it happen again and again, and to some awfully unlikely 
candidates for change. She said it had happened to her. The left side of her face was 
very alive and kind. And Gately's counselor, an ex-coke and -phone-bunko guy whose 
left ear had been one of his Losses, had hit Gately early on with the infamous Boston AA 
cake analogy. The grizzled Filipino had met with the resident Don G. once a week, 
driving Gately around Brighton-Allston in aimless circles in a customized Subaru 4x4 just 
like the ones Gately used to hotwire and promote to use for burgling. Eugenio Martinez 
had this eccentric thing where he maintained he could only be in touch with his own 
Higher Power when he was driving. Down near E.W.D.'s barge-docks off the Allston Spur 



one night he invited Gately to think of Boston AA as a box of Betty Crocker Cake Mix. 
Gately had smacked himself in the forehead at yet another limp oblique Gene M. 
analogy, which Gene had already bludgeoned him with several insectile tropes for 
thinking about the Disease. The counselor had let him vent spleen for a while, smoking 
as he crawled along behind land-barges lined up to unload. He told Gately to just 
imagine for a second that he's holding a box of Betty Crocker Cake Mix, which repre¬ 
sented Boston AA. The box came with directions on the side any eight-year-old could 
read. Gately said he was waiting for the mention of some kind of damn insect inside the 
cake mix. Gene M. said all Gately had to do was for fuck's sake give himself a break and 
relax and for once shut up and just follow the directions on the side of the fucking box. 
It didn't matter one fuckola whether Gately like believed a cake would result, or whether 
he understood the like fucking baking-chemistry of how a cake would result: if he just 
followed the motherfucking directions, and had sense enough to get help from slightly 
more experienced bakers to keep from fucking the directions up if he got confused 
somehow, but basically the point was if he just followed the childish directions, a cake 
would result. He'd have his cake. The only thing Gately knew about cake was that the 
frosting was the best part, and he personally found Eugenio Martinez a smug and self- 
righteous prick — plus he'd always distrusted both Orientals and spies, and Gene M. 
managed to seem like both — but he didn't screw out of the House or quite do anything 
they could Discharge him for, and he went to meetings nightly and told the more or less 
truth, and he did the shoe-under-bed knee thing every A.M./P.M. 24/7, and he took the 
suggestion to join a Group and get rabidly Active and clean up ashtrays and go out 
speaking on Commitments. He had nothing in the way of a like God-concept, and at that 
point maybe even less than nothing in terms of interest in the whole thing; he treated 
prayer like setting an oven-temp according to a box's direction. Thinking of it as talking 
to the ceiling was somehow preferable to imagining talking to Nothing. And he found it 
embarrassing to get down on his knees in his underwear, and like the other guys in the 
room he always pretended his sneakers were like way under the bed and he had to stay 
down there a while to find them and get them out, when he prayed, but he did it, and 
beseeched the ceiling and thanked the ceiling, and after maybe five months Gately was 
riding the Greenie at 0430 to go clean human turds out of the Shattuck shower and all 
of a sudden realized that quite a few days had gone by since he'd even thought about 
Demerol or Talwin or even weed. Not just merely getting through those last few days — 
Substances hadn't even occurred to him. I.e. the Desire and Compulsion had been 
Removed. More weeks went by, a blur of Commitments and meetings and gasper- 
smoke and cliches, and he still didn't feel anything like his old need to get high. He was, 
in a way. Free. It was the first time he'd been out of this kind of mental cage since he 
was maybe ten. He couldn't believe it. He wasn't Grateful so much as kind of suspicious 
about it, the Removal. How could some kind of Higher Power he didn't even believe in 
magically let him out of the cage when Gately had been a total hypocrite in even asking 
something he didn't believe in to let him out of a cage he had like zero hope of ever 
being let out of? When he could only get himself on his knees for the prayers in the first 
place by pretending to look for his shoes? He couldn't for the goddamn life of him 
understand how this thing worked, this thing that was working. It drove him bats. At 



about seven months, at the little Sunday Beginners' Mtg., he actually cracked one of the 
Provident's fake-wood tabletops beating his big square head against it. 195 

White Flagger ('Ferocious') Francis Gehaney, one of the most ancient and gnarled of 
the Crocodiles, had a white crew cut and skallycap and suspenders over the flannel shirt 
that encased his gut, and an enormous cucumber-shaped red schnoz you could actually 
see whole arteries in the skin of, and brown stumpy teeth and emphysema and a 
portable little oxygen-tank thing whose blue tube was held under the schnoz with white 
tape, and the very clear bright eye-whites that went along with the extremely low 
resting pulse-rate of a guy with geologic amounts of sober AA time. Ferocious Francis G., 
whose mouth was never without a toothpick and who had on his right forearm a faded 
martini-glass-and-naked-lady tattoo of Korean-War-vintage, who'd gotten sober under 
the Nixon administration and who communicated in the obscene but antiquated 
epigrams the Crocs all used 196 — F.F. had taken Gately out for eye-rattling amounts of 
coffee, after the incident with the table and the head. He'd listened with the slight 
boredom of detached Identification to Gately's complaint that there was no way 
something he didn't understand enough to even start to believe in was seriously going 
to be interested in helping save his ass, even if He/She/It did in some sense exist. Gately 
still doesn't quite know why it helped, but somehow it helped when Ferocious Francis 
suggested that maybe anything minor-league enough for Don Gately to understand 
probably wasn't going to be major-league enough to save Gately's addled ass from the 
well-dressed Sergeant at Arms, now, was it? 

That was months ago. Gately usually no longer much cares whether he understands or 
not. Fie does the knee-and-ceiling thing twice a day, and cleans shit, and listens to 
dreams, and stays Active, and tells the truth to the Ennet Flouse residents, and tries to 
help a couple of them if they approach him wanting help. And when Ferocious Francis G. 
and the White Flaggers presented him, on the September Sunday that marked his first 
year sober, with a faultlessly baked and heavily frosted one-candle cake, Don Gately had 
cried in front of nonrelatives for the first time in his life. Fie now denies that he actually 
did cry, saying something about candle-fumes in his eye. But he did. 

Gately is an unlikely choice for Ennet Flouse chef, having fed for most of the last 
twelve years on sub-shop subs and corporate snack foods consumed amid some sort of 
motion. Fie is 188 cm. and 128 kg. and had never once eaten broccoli or a pear until last 
year. Chef-wise, he offers up an exceptionless routine of: boiled hot dogs; dense damp 
meat loaf with little pieces of American cheese and half a box of cornflakes on top, for 
texture; Cream of Chicken soup over spirochete-shaped noodles; ominously dark, 
leathery Shake 'N Bake chicken legs; queasily underdone hamburgs; and hamburg-sauce 
spaghetti whose pasta he boils for almost an hour. 197 None but the most street- 
hardened Ennet residents would ever hazard an open crack about the food, which 
appears nightly at the long dinner table still in the broad steaming pans it was cooked in, 
with Gately's big face hovering lunarly above it, flushed and beaded under the floppy 
chef's hat Annie Parrot had given him as a dark joke he hadn't got, his eyes full of 
anxiety and hopes for everyone's full enjoyment, basically looking like a nervous bride 
serving her first conjugal dish, except this bride's hands are the same size as the blouse's 
dinner plates and have jailhouse tatts on them, and this bride seems to need no oven- 



mitts as he sets down massive pans on the towels that have to be laid down to keep the 
plastic tabletop from searing. Any sort of culinary comments are always extremely 
oblique. Randy Lenz up at the northeast corner likes to raise his can of tonic and say that 
Don's food is the kind of food that helps you really appreciate whatever you're drinking 
along with it. Geoffrey Day talks about what a refreshing change it is to leave a dinner 
table not feeling bloated. Wade McDade, a young hard-core flask-alkie from Ashland KY, 
and Doony Glynn, who's still woozy and infirm from some horrendous Workers Comp, 
scam gone awry last year, and is constantly sickly and who's probably going to get 
Discharged soon for losing his menial job at Brighton Fence & Wire and not even 
pretending to look for another one — the two have this bit they do on spaghetti night 
where McDade comes into the living room right before chow and goes 'Some of that 
extra-fine spay-ghetti tonight, Doonster,' and Doony Glynn goes 'Ooo, will it be all lovely 
and soft?' and McDade goes 'Leave your teeth at home, boy' in the voice of a Kentucky 
sheriff, leading Glynn to the table by the hand as if Glynn were a damaged child. They 
take care to do the bit while Gately's still in the kitchen tossing salad and worrying about 
course-presentation. Though Tiny Ewell never fails to thank Gately for the meal, and 
April Cortelyu is lavish in her praises, and Burt F. Smith always rolls his eyes with 
pleasure and makes yummy-noises whenever he can get a fork to his mouth. 


PRE DAWN, 1 MAY — Y.D.A.U. OUTCROPPING NORTHWEST OF 
TUCSON AZ U.S.A., STILL 


'Do you remember hearing,' U.S.O.U.S.'s Hugh Steeply said, 'in your own country, in 
the late I think B.S. 70s, of an experimental program, a biomedical experiment, 
involving the idea of electro-implantations in the human brain?' Steeply, at the shelf's 
lip, turned to look. Marathe merely looked back at him. Steeply said: 'No? Some sort of 
radical advance. Stereotaxy. Epilepsy-treatment. They proposed to implant tiny little 
hair-thin electrodes in the brain. Some leading Canadian neurologist — Elder, Elders, 
something — at the time had hit on evidence that certain tiny little stimulations in 
certain brain-areas could prevent a seizure. As in an epileptic seizure. They implant 



electrodes — hair-thin, just a few millivolts or —' 

'Briggs electrodes.' 

'Beg pardon?' 

Marathe coughed slightly. 'Also the type used in pacemakers of the heart.' 

Steeply felt his lip. Tm thinking I'm recalling a tentative Bio-entry saying your father 
had had a pacemaker.' 

Marathe touched his own face absently. The plutonium-239 pack of power. The Briggs 
electrode. The Kenbeck DC circuit. I am recalling terms and instructions. Avoid all 
microwaving ovens and many transmitters. Cremation for burial forbidden — this is 
because of plutonium-239.' 

'So but you know of this old program with epileptics? Experiments they thought could 
avoid ablative surgery for severe epilepsy?' 

Marathe said nothing and made what might be seen as slightly shaking the head. 

Steeply turned back to face the east with his hands clasped before his back, wishing to 
speak of it one way or another way, Marathe could tell. 

'I can't remember if I read about it or heard a lecture or what. The implantation was a 
pretty inexact science. It was all experimental. A whole lot of electrodes had to be 
implanted in an incredibly small area in the temporal lobe to hope to find the nerve- 
terminals that involved epileptic seizures, and it was trial and error, stimulating each 
electrode and checking the reaction.' 

'Temporal lobes of the brain,' Marathe said. 

'What happened was that Olders and the Canadian neuroscientists happened to find, 
during all the trial and error, that firing certain electrodes in certain parts of the lobes 
gave the brain intense feelings of pleasure.' Steeply looked back over his shoulder at 
Marathe. 'I mean we're talking about intense pleasure, Remy. I'm remembering Olders 
called these little strips of stimulatable pleasure-tissue p-terminals.' 

' "P" wishing to mean "the pleasure." 

'And that their location seemed maddeningly inexact and unpredictable, even within 
brains of the same species — a p-terminal'd turn out to be right up next to some other 
neuron whose stimulation would cause pain, or hunger, or God knows what.' 

'The human brain is very dense; it is the truth.' 

'The whole point is they weren't doing it on humans yet. It was regarded as radically 
experimental. They used animals and animal-lobes. But soon the pleasure-stimulation 
phenomenon was its own separate radical experiment, while the second-string neuro¬ 
team stuck with the epileptic animals. Older — or Elder, some Anglo-Canadian name — 
headed the team to map these what he called quote "Rivers of Reward," the p-terminals 
in the lobes.' 

Marathe idly felt at the little pills of cotton in his windbreaker's cotton pockets, 
pleasantly nodding. 'An experimental program of Canada, you stated.' 

'I even remember. The Brandon Psychiatric Center.' 

Marathe pretended to cough in the recognition of this. 'This is a mental hospital. The 
far north of Manitoba. Forbidding wastelands. The center of nothing.' 

'Because they were theorizing that these quote "rivers" or terminals were also the 
brain's receptors for things like beta-endorphins, L-dopa, Q-dopa, serotonin, all the 



various neurotransmitters of pleasure.' 

'The Department of Euphoria, so to speak, within the human brain.' 

There was no hint or suggestion yet of dawn or light. 

'But not humans yet,' Steeply said. 'Older's earliest subject were rats, and the results 
were apparently sobering. The Nu— the Canadians found that if they rigged an auto¬ 
stimulation lever, the rat would press the lever to stimulate his p-terminal over and 
over, thousands of times an hour, over and over, ignoring food and female rats in heat, 
completely fixated on the lever's stimulation, day and night, stopping only when the rat 
finally died of dehydration or simple fatigue.' 

Marathe said 'Not of the pleasure itself, however.' 

'I think dehydration. I'm fuzzy on just what the rat died of.' 

Marathe shrugged. 'But the envy of all experimental rats everywhere, this rat, I think.' 

'Then likewise implantations and levers for cats, dogs, swine, monkeys, primates, even 
a dolphin.' 

'Up the evolving scale, p-terminals for each. Each died?' 

'Eventually,' Steeply said, 'or else they had to be lobotomized. Because I remember 
even if the pleasure-electrode was removed, the stimulation-lever removed, the 
subject'd run around pressing anything that could be pressed or flipped, trying to get 
one more jolt.' 

'The dolphin, probably it swam about and did this, I think.' 

'You seem amused by this, Remy. This was totally a Canadian show, this little 
neuroelectric adventure.' 

'I am amused while you make a way toward your point so slowly.' 

'Because then eventually Elder and company of course wanted to try human subjects, 
to see whether the human lobe had p-terminals and so on; and because of the sobering 
consequences for the subject-animals in the program they couldn't legally use prisoners 
or patients, they had to try to secure volunteers.' 

'Because of a risk,' Marathe said. 

'The whole thing was apparently a nightmare of Canadian legalities and statutes.' 

Marathe pursed the lips: 'I have doubts in my mind: Ottawa could easily have asked 
your then CIA for, what is the term, "Persons of Expendability" from Southeast Asia or 
Negroes, the subjects expended for your inspiring U.S.A.'s MK-Ultra.' 198 

Steeply elected ignoring this, rummaging in the purse. 'But what apparently happened 
was that somehow word of the p-terminal discovery and experiments had gotten out up 
in Manitoba — some low-level worker at Brandon had broken security and leaked 
word.' 

'Very little else to do in northern Manitoba besides leaking and gossiping.' 

'...And suddenly the neuro-team at Brandon pull in to work one day and find human 
volunteers lining up literally around the block outside the place, able-bodied and I 
should remember to recall mostly young Canadians, lining up and literally trampling 
each other in their desire to sign up as volunteers for p-terminal-electrode implantation 
and stimulation.' 

'In full knowledge of the rat's and dolphin's death, from pressing the lever.' 

Marathe's father had always assigned it to Remy, his youngest, to go first inside some 



public restaurant or shop to check for the presence of a microwave or GC-type of 
transmitter. Of special concerns were stores with instruments for thwarting a shoplifter, 
the shrieking instruments at doors. 

Steeply said 'And of course this eagerness for implantation put a whole new disturbing 
spin on the study of human pleasure and behavior, and a whole new Brandon Hospital 
team was hastily assembled to study the psych-profiles of all these people willing to 
trample one another to undergo invasive brain surgery and foreign-object implantation 

_i 

'To become some crazed rats.' 

'— All just for the chance at this kind of pleasure, and the M.M.P.I.s and Millon's and 
Approception tests on all these hordes of prospective volunteers — the hordes were 
told it was part of the screening — the scores came out fascinatingly, chillingly average, 
normal.' 

'In other words not any deviants.' 

'Nonabnormal along every axis they could see. Just regular young people — Canadian 
young people.' 

'Volunteering for fatal addiction to the electrical pleasure.' 

'But Remy, apparently the purest, most refined pleasure imaginable. The neural 
distillate of, say, orgasm, religious enlightenment, ecstatic drugs, shiatsu, a crackling fire 
on a winter night — the sum of all possible pleasures refined into pure current and 
deliverable at the flip of a hand-held lever. Thousands of times an hour, at will.' 

Marathe gave him a bland look. 

Steeply examined a cuticle. 'By free choice, of course.' 

Marathe assumed an expression that lampooned a dullard's hard thought. 'Thus, but 
how long before these leaks and rumors of p-terminals reach the Ottawa of government 
and public weal, for Canada's government reacts with horror at the prospect of this.' 

'Oh, and not just Ottawa,' Steeply said. 'You can see the implications if a technology 
like Elder's really became available. I know Ottawa informed Turner, Bush, Casey, 
whoever it was at the time, and everyone at Langley bit their knuckle in horror.' 

'The CIA chewed a hand?' 

'Because surely you can see the implications for any industrialized, market-driven, 
high-discretionary-spending society.' 

'But it would be illegalized,' Marathe said, noting to remember the various routines of 
movements Steeply made for keeping warm. 

'Stop with the babe-in-woods charade,' Steeply said. 'There was still the prospect of an 
underground market exponentially more pernicious than narcotics or LSD. The 
electrode-and-lever technology looked expensive at the time, but it was easy to foresee 
enormous widespread demand bringing it down to where electrodes'd be no more 
exotic than syringes.' 

'But yes, but surgery, this would be a different matter to implant.' 

'Plenty of surgeons were already willing to perform illegal procedures. Abortions. 
Electric penile implants.' 

'The MK-Ultra surgeries.' 

Steeply laughed without mirth. 'Or off-the-record amputations for daring young train- 



cultists, no?' 

Marathe blew just one nostril of his nose. This was the Quebecois way: one of the 
nostrils at a time. Marathe's father's generation, they had used to bend and blow the 
one nostril out into the gutter in the street. 

Steeply said 'Picture millions of average nonabnormal North Americans, all implanted 
with Briggs electrodes, all with electronic access to their own personal p-terminals, 
never leaving home, thumbing their personal stimulation levers over and over.' 

'Lying upon their divans. Ignoring females in rutting. Having rivers of reward without 
earning reward.' 

'Bug-eyed, drooling, moaning, trembling, incontinent, dehydrated. Not working, not 
consuming, not interacting or taking part in community life. Finally pitching forward 
from sheer —' 

Marathe said 'Giving away their souls and lives for p-terminal stimulation, you are 
saying.' 

'You can maybe see the analogy,' Steeply said, over the shoulders to smile in a wry 
way. 'In Canada, my friend, this was.' 

Marathe made a very slight version of his rotary motion of impatience: 'From the A.D. 
1970s of time. This never has come to be. There would have been no development of 
the Happy Patch ...' 

'We both went in. Both our nations.' 

Tn secret.' 

'Ottawa first cutting the Brandon program's funding, which Turner or Casey or 
whoever howled at — our old CIA wanted the procedure developed and perfected, then 
Classified — military use or something.' 

Marathe said 'But the civilian guardians of the weal of the public felt differently.' 

'I think I'm remembering Carter was President. Both our combined nations made it a 
Security priority, shutting it down. Our old N.S.A., your old C7 with the R.C.M.P.s.' 

'Bright red jackets and hats with wide brims. In the 1970s still on horses.' 

Steeply held his mouth of the purse half up to the faint lights of Tucson, peering for 
something. 'I recall they went in directly. As in guns drawn. Boomed the doors. 
Dismantled the labs. Mercy-killed dolphins and goats. Olders disappeared somewhere.' 

Marathe's slow circular gesture. 'Your point finally is Canadians also, we would choose 
dying for this, the total pleasure of a passive goat.' 

Steeply turned, fiddling with an emery board. 'But you don't see a more specific 
analogy with the Entertainment?' 

Marathe tongued the inside of his cheek. 'You are saying the Entertainment, a 
somehow optical stimulation of the p-terminals? A way to bypass Briggs electrodes for 
orgasm-and-massage pleasures?' 

The dry rasp of the emerying a nail. 'All I'm saying is analogy. A precedent in your own 
nation.' 

'Us, our nation is the Quebec nation. Manitoba is —' 

'I'm saying that if he could get past the blind desire for harm against the U.S., your M. 
Fortier might be induced to see just what it is he's proposing to let out of the cage.' His 
training was such that he could emery without watching the procedure. For Steeply's 



most effective interviewing tactic was chis long looking down into the face without 
emotion of any kind. For Marathe felt more uncomfortable not knowing whether 
Steeply believed a thing than if Steeply's emotion of face showed he did not believe. 


Then tonight, at the prospect of boiled hot dogs, the two newest residents had pulled 
the typically standard new-resident princess-and-pea special-food-issue thing: the new- 
today girl Amy J. that just sits there on the vinyl couch shaking like an aspen and having 
people bring her coffee and light her gaspers and with just short of a like HELPLESS 
VICTIM: PLEASE CODDLE sign hung around her neck now claiming Red Dye #4 gives her 
'cluster migraines' (Gately gives this girl like a week tops before she's a vapor trail back 
to the Xanax 199 ; she has that look), and the weirdly-familiar-but-Southernish-sounding 
girl Joelle van D. with the past-believing bod and the linen face announcing she was a 
vegetarian and would 'rather eat a bug' than even get downwind of a boiled frank. And 
but in an incredible move Pat M. has asked Gately, at like 1800h., to blast down to the 
Purity Supreme down in Allston and pick up some eggs and peppers so the two new 
delicate-tummied newcomers can make themselves quiche or whatever. To Gately's 
way of thinking, this looks like catering to just the sort of classic addict's claim of special 
uniqueness that it's supposed to be Pat's job to help break down. The Joelle v.D. girl 
seems to have like inordinate immediate weight and pet-status with Pat, who's already 
making noises about exempting the girl from the menial-job requirement, and wants 
Gately to look for some kind of weird Big Red Soda Water tonic for the girl, who's 
apparently still dehydrated. It's sure a long way from making somebody chew feldspar. 
Gately has long since quit trying to figure Pat Montesian out. 

It's a weird-weather evening, both thundering and spitting snow. Gately had finally 
become able to distinguish genuine thunder from the Enfield sounds of ATHSCME fans 
and E.W.D. catapults, this after nine months of wearing a Goodwill rain-slicker every 
morning on the 0430 Green Line. 

One of the possible weak spots in Gately's AA recovery-program of rigorous personal 
honesty is that once he's jammed himself into a black-as-water Aventura and watched 
the spoiler throb as he turns over the carnivorous engine, etc., he often finds himself 
taking a little bit less of a direct route to a given Ennet-errand-site than he probably 
could. If he had to come right down to the heart of the issue he likes to cruise around 
town in Pat's car. He's able to minimize the suspicious time any particular bit of extra 
cruising adds to his errands by basically driving like a lunatic: ignoring lights, cutting 
people off, scoffing at One-Ways, veering wildly in and out, making pedestrians drop 
things and lunge curbward, leaning on a horn that sounds more like an air-raid siren. 
You'd think this would be judicially insane, in terms of not having a license and facing a 
no-license jail-bit anyway, but the fact is that this sort of on-the-way-to-the-E.R.-with-a- 
passenger-in-labor driving doesn't usually raise so much as an eyebrow among Boston's 
Finest, since they have more than enough other stuff to attend to, in these troubled 
times, and since everybody else in metro Boston drives exactly the same sociopathic 
way, including the Finest themselves, so that the only real risk Gately's running is to his 
own sense of rigorous personal honesty. One cliche he's found especially serviceable 



w/r/t the Aventura issue is that Recovery is about Progress Not Perfection. He likes to 
make a stately left onto Commonwealth and wait to get out of view of the House's bay 
window and then produce what he imagines is a Rebel Yell and open her up down the 
serpentine tree-lined boulevard of the Ave. as it slithers through bleak parts of Brighton 
and Allston and past Boston U. and toward the big triangular CITGO neon sign and the 
Back Bay. He passes The Unexamined Life club, where he no longer goes, at 1800h. 
already throbbing with voices and bass under its ceaseless neon bottle, and then the 
great gray numbered towers of the Brighton Projects, where he definitely no longer 
goes. Scenery starts to blur and distend at 70 kph. Comm. Ave. splits Enfield-Brighton- 
Allston from the downscale north edge of Brookline on the right. He passes the meat- 
colored facades of anonymous Brookline tenements. Father & Son Market, a dumpster- 
nest, Burger Kings, Blanchard's Liquors, an InterLace outlet, a land-barge alongside 
another dumpster-nest, corner bars and clubs — Play It Again Sam's, Harper's Ferry, 
Bunratty's, Rathskeller, Father's First I and II — a CVS, two InterLace outlets right next to 
each other, the ELLIS THE RIM MAN sign, the Marty's Liquors that they rebuilt like ants 
the week after it burned down. He passes the hideous Riley's Roast Beef where the 
Allston Group gathers to pound coffee before Commitments. The giant distant CITGO 
sign's like a triangular star to steer by. He's doing 75 k down a straightaway, keeping 
abreast of an Inbound Green Line train ramming downhill on the slightly raised track 
that splits Comm.'s lanes into two and two. He likes to match a Green train at 75 k all 
the way down Commonwealth's integral $ and see how close he can cut beating it 
across the tracks at the Brighton Ave. split. It's a vestige. He'd admit it's like a dark 
vestige of his old low-self-esteem suicidal-thrill behaviors. He doesn't have a license, it's 
not his car, it's a priceless art-object car, it's his boss's car, who he owes his life to and 
sort of maybe loves, he's on a vegetable-run for shattered husks of newcomers just out 
of detox whose eyes are rolling around in their heads. Has anybody mentioned Gately's 
head is square? It's almost perfectly square, massive and boxy and mysticetously blunt: 
the head of somebody who looks like he likes to lower his head and charge. He used to 
let people open and close elevator doors on his head, break things across his head. The 
'Indestructible' in his childhood cognomen referred to the head. His left ear looks a bit 
like a prizefighter's left ear. The head's nearly flat on top, so that his hair, long in back 
but with short Prince Valiant bangs in front, looks sort of like a carpet remnant 
someone's tossed on the head and let slide slightly back but stay. 200 Nobody that lives in 
these guano-spotted old brown buildings along Comm, with bars on the low floors' 
windows 201 ever goes inside, it seems like. Even in thunder and little asterisks of snow, 
all kinds of olive Spanish and puke-white Irish are on every corner, bullshitting and 
trying to look like they're just out there waiting for something important and drinking 
out of tallboys wrapped tight in brown bags. A strange nod to discretion, the bags, 
wrapped so tight the outline of the cans can't be missed. A Shore boy, Gately'd never 
used a paper bag around streetcorner cans: it's like a city thing. The Aventura can do 80 
kph in third gear. The engine never strains or whines, just eventually starts to sound 
hostile, is how you to know to hurt your hip and shift. The Aventura's instrument panel 
looks more like the instrument panel of military aircraft. Something's always blinking 
and Indicating; one of the blinking lights is supposed to tell you when to shift; Pat has 



told him to ignore the panel. He loves to make the driver's-side window go down and 
rest his left elbow on the jamb like a cabbie. 

He's caught behind a bus whose big square ass is in both lanes and he can't get around 
it in time to beat the train across the split, though, and the train crosses in front of the 
bus with a blast of its farty-sounding horn and what Gately sees as a kind of swagger to 
its jiggle on the street-level track. He can see people bouncing around inside the train, 
holding on to straps and bars. Below the split on Comm, it's Boston U., Kenmore and 
Fenway, Berklee School of Music. The CITGO sign's still off in the distance ahead. You 
have to go a shocking long way to actually get to the big sign, which everybody says is 
hollow and you can get up inside there and stick your head out in a pulsing neon sea but 
nobody's ever personally been up in there. 

Arm out like a hack's arm, Gately blasts through B.U. country. As in backpack and 
personal-stereo and designer-fatigues country. Soft-faced boys with backpacks and high 
hard hair and seamless foreheads. Totally lineless untroubled foreheads like cream 
cheese or ironed sheets. All the storefronts here are for clothes or TP cartridges or 
posters. Gately's had lines in his big forehead since he was about twelve. It's here he 
especially likes making people throw their packages in the air and dive for the curb. B.U. 
girls who look like they've eaten nothing but dairy products their whole lives. Girls who 
do step-aerobics. Girls with good combed long clean hair. Nonaddicted girls. The weird 
hopelessness at the heart of lust. Gately hasn't had sex in almost two years. At the end 
of the Demerol he physically couldn't. Then in Boston AA they tell you not to, not in your 
first year clean, if you want to be sure to Hang In. But they like omit to tell you that after 
that year's gone by you're going to have forgotten how to even talk to a girl except 
about Surrender and Denial and what it used to be like Out There in the cage. Gately's 
never had sex sober yet, or danced, or held somebody's hand except to say the Our 
Father in a big circle. He's gone back to having wet dreams at age twenty-nine. 

Gately's found he can get away with smoking in the Aventura if he opens the 
passenger window too and makes sure no ashes go anywhere. The crosswind through 
the open car is brutal. He smokes menthols. He'd switched to menthols at four months 
clean because he couldn't stand them and the only people he knew that smoked them 
were Niggers and he'd figured that if menthols were the only gaspers he let himself 
smoke he'd be more likely to quit. And now he can't stand anything but menthols, which 
Calvin T. says are even worse for you because they got little bits of asbestosy shit in the 
filter and whatnot. But Gately had been living in the little male live-in Staffer's room 
down in the basement by the audio pay phone and tonic machines for like two months 
before it turned out the Health guy came and inspected and said all the big pipes up at 
the room's ceiling were insulated in ancient asbestos that was coming apart and 
asbestosizing the room, and Gately had to move all his shit and the furniture out into 
the open basement and guys in white suits with oxygen tanks went in and stripped 
everything off the pipes and went over the room with what smells like it was a 
flamethrower. Then hauled the decayed asbestos down to E.W.D. in a welded drum 
with a skull on it. So Gately figures menthol gaspers are probably the least of his lung- 
worries at this point. 

You can get on the Storrow 50 0 202 off Comm. Ave. below Kenmore via this long twiny 



overpass-shadowed road that cuts across the Fens. Basically the Storrow 500 is an urban 
express route that runs along the bright-blue Chuck all the way along Cambridge's spine. 
The Charles is vivid even under gloomy thundering skies. Gately has decided to buy the 
newcomers' omelette stuff at Bread & Circus in Inman Square, Cambridge. It will explain 
delay, and will be a subtle nonverbal stab at unique dietary requests in general. Bread & 
Circus is a socially hyperresponsible overpriced grocery full of Cambridge Green Party 
granola-crunchers, and everything's like micro-biotic and fertilized only with organic 
genuine llama-shit, etc. The Aventura's low driver's seat and huge windshield afford 
your thinking man maybe a little more view of the sky than he'd like. The sky is low and 
gray and loose and seems to hang. There's something baggy about the sky. It's 
impossible to tell whether snow is still actually falling or whether just a little snow that's 
already fallen is blowing around. To get to Inman Square you veer over three lines to get 
off the Storrow 500 on Prospect St.'s Ramp of Death and slalom between the sinkholes 
and go right, north, and take Prospect through Central Square and all the way north 
through heavy ethnicity up almost into Somerville. 

Inman Square, too, is someplace Gately rarely goes anymore, because it's in 
Cambridge's Little Lisbon, heavily Portuguese, which means also Brazilians in the 
antiquated bellbottoms and flare-collared leisure suits they've never let go of, and 
where there are disco-ized Brazilians can cocaine and narcotics ever be far away. The 
district's Brazilians are another solid rationale for driving at excessive rates of speed, for 
Gately. Plus Gately's solidly pro-American, and north of Central Square's clot and snarl 
Prospect St.'s a copless straight shot through eerily alien lands: billboards in Spanish, 
plaster madonnas in fenced front yards, intricately latticed grape arbors looking seized 
and clutched at, now, by networks of finger-thick bare woody vines; ads for lottery 
tickets in what isn't quite Spanish, all the houses gray, more bright plastic madonnas in 
nunnish getups on peeling front porches, stores and bodegas and low-suspension cars 
triple-parked, an all-out full-cast creche-type scene hung from a second-floor balcony, 
clotheslines hanging between houses, gray houses in rows squished right up next to 
each other in long rows with tiny toy-strewn yards, and tall, the houses, like being 
squished in from either side distends them. A couple Canadian and Nuck-owned stores 
mashed in here and there, between the propinquous Spanish three-deckers, looking 
subjugated and exiled and etc. The street shitty with litter and holes. Indifferent 
drainage. Big-assed girls stuffed like stuffed sausage into cigarette jeans in always trios 
in the twilight with that weird blond-brown hair Portuguese girls dye their hair to. A 
store in good old English advertising Chickens Fresh Killed Daily. Ryle's Jazz Club's 
upscale pub-type bar, guys in tweed caps and briar pipes in mouths at angles taking all 
day on a pint of warm stout. Gately's always thought dark beer tasted like cork. An 
intriguing single-decker medical-looking bldg, with a sort of tympanum over the 
smoked-glass door with an ad that says COMPLETE DESTRUCTION OF CONFIDENTIAL 
RECORDS that Gately's always wanted to poke the old head in and have a look at what 
on earth they might be up to in there. Little Portuguese markets with food in there you 
can't even tell what species it's from. Once at a Portuguese take-out at Inman Square's 
east end a coke-whore tried to get Gately to eat something that had tentacles. He had a 
sub instead. Gately now simply blows through Inman, heading for B&C over on the 



upscale northwest side nearer to Harvard, every light suddenly green and kind, the 
Aventura's ten-cylinder backwash raising an odd little tornado of discarded ad-leaflets 
and glassine bags and corporate-snack bags and a syringe's husk and filterless gasper- 
butts and general crud and a flattened Millennial Fizzy cup, like from a stand, which 
whirls in his exhaust, the tornado of waste does, moving behind him as the last pearly 
curve of the sun through baggy clouds is eaten by the countless Sancta Something and 
then whitewashed WASP church roofs' finials farther west, nearer Harvard, at 60 k but 
sustained in its whirl by the strong west breeze as the last of the sun goes and a blue- 
black shadow quietly fills the canyon of Prospect, whose streetlights don't work for the 
same municipal reasons the street is in such crummy repair; and one piece of the debris 
Gately's raised and set spinning behind him, a thick flattened M.F. cup, caught by a 
sudden gust as it falls, twirling, is caught at some aerodyne's angle and blown spinning 
all the way to the storefront of one 'Antitoi Entertainent' 203 on the street's east side, and 
hits, its waxed bottom making a clunk, hits the glass pane in the locked front shop door 
with a sound for all the world like the rap of a knuckle, so that in a minute a burly 
bearded thoroughly Canadian figure in one of those Canadianly inevitable checked- 
flannel shirts appears out of the dim light in the shop's back room and wipes its mouth 
on first one sleeve then the other and opens up the front door with a loud hinge-squeak 
and looks around a bit, viz. for who knocked, looking not overly pleased at being 
interrupted at what his sleeves betray as a foreign supper, and also, below that harried 
expression, looking edgy and emotionally pale, which might explain the X of small-arms 
ammo-belts across his checked chest and the rather absurdly large .44 revolver tucked 
and straining in the waistband of his jeans. Lucien Antitoi's equally burly partner and 
brother Bertraund — currently still back there in the little back room where they sleep 
on cots with serious weaponry underneath and listen to CQBC radio and scheme and 
smoke killer U.S.A. hydroponic dope and cut and mount glass and sew flags and cook 
over sterno in L.L. Bean upscale survivalist cookware, he's back there eating Habitant 
soupe aux pois and bread with Bread & Circus molasses and some sort of oblong blue- 
veined patties of a meat your thinking American wouldn't even want to try to identify — 
Bertraund's forever laughing in Quebecois and telling Lucien he looks forward with 
humorous anticipation to the day Lucien forgets to check the big Colt's safety before he 
jams it into the waistband of his pants and goes lumbering around the shop in his 
hobnail boots making every reflective and blown-glass item in the place tinkle and clink. 
The unautomatic revolver, it is a souvenir of affiliation. Once or twice doing work of 
affiliation with the Separatist/Anti-O.N.A.N. F.L.Q., they are for the most part a not very 
terrifying insurgent cell, the Antitois, more or less loners, self-contained, a monomitotic 
cell, eccentric and borderline-incompetent, protected gently by their late regional 
patron M. Guillaume DuPlessis of the Gaspe Peninsula, spurned by F.L.Q. after 
DuPlessis's assassination and also ridiculed by the more malignant anti-O.N.A.N. cells. 
Betraund Antitoi is in charge, the brains of the outfit, pretty much by default, since 
Lucien Antitoi is one of the very few natives of Notre Rat Pays ever who cannot 
understand French, just never caught on, and so has very limited veto-powers, even 
when it comes to such harebrained Bertraund-schemes as hanging a sword-stemmed 
fleur-de-lis flag from the nose of a U.S.A. Civic War hero's Boylston St. statue when it 



would simply be cut down by bored O.N.A.N.ite chiens-courcmts gendarmes the next 
morning, or taping bricks to the return-postage-paid solicitation cards of Scms-Christe 
Gentle's C.U.S.P. party, or fashioning Astroturf doormats with a likeness of Scms-Christe 
Gentle on them and distributing them gratis to home-supply outlets throughout their 
insurgency-grid — puerile and on the whole rather sad little gestures that M. DuPlessis 
would have interdicted with a merry laugh and a friendly hand on Bertraund's bowling 
ball of a shoulder. But M. DuPlessis had been martyred, an assassination only O.N.A.N. 
would be stupid enough to believe Command would be stupid enough to believe was 
merely an unfortunate burglary-and-mucus mishap. And Bertraund Antitoi, after 
DuPlessis's death and F.L.Q.'s rejection left to his own conceptual devices for the first 
time since their all-terrain vehicle was packed with quality Van Buskirk of Montreal 
exotic reflective glasswares and glass-blowing hardware and broom and ordnance and 
survivalist cookware and hip postcards and black-lather gag soap and cheesy old low- 
demand InterLace 3rd-Grid cartridges and hand-buzzers and fraudulent but seductive X- 
ray spectacles and they were sent through the remains of Provincial Autoroute 557 
U.S.A. 91 in protective garb they'd shed and buried just south of the Convexity's Bellow's 
Falls VT O.N.A.N.ite checkpoint, sent as a kind of primitive two-celled organism to 
establish a respectable front and abet more malignant cells and to insurge and terrorize 
in small sad anti-experialist ways, now Bertraund has shown a previously DuPlessis- 
restrained flair for stupid wastes of time, including this branching out into harmful 
pharmaceuticals as an attack on the fiber of New New England's youth — as if the U.S.A. 
youth were not already more than fiberless enough, in Lucien's mute opinion. Bertraund 
had actually been credulous enough with a wrinkled long-haired person of advanced 
years in a paisley Nehru jacket also of great age and a puzzling cap with a skeleton 
playing at the violin emblazoned upon it, on the front, wearing also the most stupid¬ 
appearing small round wire spectacles with salmon-colored lenses, and also continually 
forming the letter of V with fingers of his hand and directing this letter of V at Bertraund 
and Lucien — Bertraund felt the gesture was a subtle affirmation of solidarity with 
patriotic Struggle everywhere and stood for Victoire, but Lucien suspected a U.S.A. 
obscenity laughingly flashed at persons who would not comprehend its insult, just as 
one of Lucien's sadistic ecoie-speciaie tutors back in Ste.-Anne-des-Monts had spent 
weeks in Second Form teaching Lucien to say Vo chier, putain!' which he (the tutor) 
claimed meant 'Look Maman I can speak French and thus finally express my love and 
devotion to you' — Bertraund had been starry-eyed enough to agree to barter the 
person an antique blue lava-lamp and a lavender-tinged apothecary's mirror for 
eighteen unexceptional-looking and old lozenges the long-haired old person had 
claimed in a jumble of West-Swiss-accented French were 650 mg. of a frop-formidable 
harmful pharmaceutical no longer available and guaranteed to make one's most hair- 
raising psychedelic experience look like a day on the massage-tables of a Basel hot- 
springs resort, throwing in as well a kitchen-can waste bag filled with crusty old mossy 
boot-and-leg Read-Only cartridges, sans any labels, that appeared to have been stored 
in a person's rear yard and then run through a gaseous dryer of clothes, as if Lucien did 
not have already more than plenty of crusty old cartridges which Bertraund removed 
from InterLace dumpsters or was cheated in barters for and brought back to the shop 



for Lucien's job to view and label and organize the cartridges for storing and were never 
bought except the occasional cartridge in Portuguese, or pornographical. And the aged 
person had flopped off in his cap and sandals with a lamp and an apothecary's mirror to 
which Lucien had been personally much attached, particularly to the lavender mirror, 
flashing this covert obscenity of V and with smiles urging the brothers to write their 
name and address on the palm of their hands with the drenching-sweat-proof ink before 
they dropped any of the so-called 'tu-sais-quoi,' if they were going to be the persons 
who ingested these lozenges. 

The front door squeaks loudly of the hinge and Lucien recloses it and drives the bolt 
home: squeak. The upper hinge squeaks no matter the oil, as the shop drives Lucien 
crazy by becoming again dusty each time the door is opened to the street's grit, and 
from the dust of the alley with so many dumpsters behind the back room which 
Bertraund refuses not to open the iron service door of, to spit. The squeak functions in 
the place of a customer-bell, however. The front knock of the closed door clearly is once 
again big-bottomed Brazilian children playing at unamusing pranks. He does not pull the 
window shade, but he does grab the stout trusty homemade broom he sweeps the shop 
all day with and stands there, chewing anxiously the nail of a thumb, looking out. Lucien 
Antitoi enjoys standing at the door's glass pane and looking blankly out at the light snow 
of dust bright against the blue-shadowed twilight eating the American street outside. 
The door continues to squeak faintly even after he's driven home the bolt. He can stand 
here happily for hours, leaning on the sturdy broom he'd carved from a snow-snapped 
limb as a boy during the Gaspe's terrible blizzards of Quebec of A.D. 1993 and bound 
broom-corn onto and sharpened the tip of, as a sort of domestic weapon, even then, 
before O.N.A.N.ite experialist impost made any sort of struggle or sacrifice remotely 
necessary, as a silent boy, keenly interested in weapons and ammunitions of all the 
different sorts. Which along with the size thing helped with the teasing. He could and 
does stand here for hours, complexly backlit, transparently reflected, looking at alien 
traffic and commerce. He has that rare spinal appreciation for beauty in the ordinary 
that nature seems to bestow on those who have no native words for what they see. 
'Squeak.' The visual bulk of the shoproom of Antitoi Entertainent is devoted to glass: 
they have set curved and planar mirrors at studied angles whereby each part of the 
room is reflected in every other part, which flusters and disorients customers and keeps 
haggling to a minimum. In a sort of narrow fashioned corridor behind one gauntlet of 
angled glass is their stock of gags, notions, ironic postcards, and unironic sentimental 
greeting cards as well. 204 Flanking another are shelf after shelf of used and bootleg 
InterLace and independent and even homemade digital entertainment cartridges, in no 
discernible order, since Bertraund handles acquisition and Lucien's in charge of 
inventory and order. Nevertheless, once he's viewed it even once, he can identify any 
used cartridge in stock and will point it out to the rare customer with the sharpened 
whitewood tip of his homemade broom. Some of the cartridges do not even have labels, 
they're so obscure or illicit. To keep up with Bertraund, Lucien must watch new 
acquisitions on the small cheap viewer beside the manual cash register as he sweeps the 
shop with the imposing broom he has loved and kept sharpened and polished and floor- 
fuzz-free since adolescence, and which he sometimes imagines he is conversing with. 



very quietly, telling it to va chier putain in tones surprisingly gentle and kind for such a 
large terrorist. The viewer's screen has something wrong with its Definition and there is 
a wobble that makes all cartridge performers on the left section of it appear to have 
Tourette's syndrome. The pornographical cartridges he finds nonsensical and views 
them in Fast Forward to get them over with as quickly as possible. So but he knows all 
but the most recent acquisitions' colors and visual plots, but some still have no labels. 
Fie still has not gotten to see and shelve many of the massive assortment Bertraund 
lugged home and out of the all-terrain vehicle in Saturday's chilling rain, several old 
exercise and film cartridges a small Back Bay TelEntertainment outlet was discarding as 
outdated. Also there were one or two Bertraund claimed he had picked up literally on 
the street downtown from the site of the flag-draped Shaw statue from untended 
commercial displays that stupidly contained detachable cartridges anyone could detach 
and lug home in the rain. The displays' cartridges he had immediately viewed, for 
though they were unlabelled save for a commercialed slogan in tiny raised letters of IL 
NE FAUT PLUS QU'ON PURSUIVE LE BONHEUR - which to Lucien Antitoi signified zilch 
— each was stamped also with a circle and arc that resembled a disembodied smile, 
which made Lucien himself smile and pop them in right away, to find to his 
disappointment and impatience with Bertraund that they were blank, without even HD 
static, just as the old rude person's bartered tapes he had removed from the waste bag 
of their storage for viewing had proved, blank beyond static, to the satisfaction of 
Lucien's disgust. 205 Through the door's window, passing headlights illumine a disabled 
person in a wheelchair laboring along the rutted walk outside the Portuguese grocery 
opposite Antitoi Entertainent's storefront. Lucien forgets he was eating bread with 
upscale molasses and soupe aux pois; he forgets he is eating the moment the food's 
taste leaves his mouth. His mind is usually as clean and transparent as anything in the 
shop. He sweeps a little, absently, in front of the pane, watching his face's reflection bob 
against the blackening night outside. Light snowfall almost is bouncing back and forth 
between sides of Prospect's canyon. The broom's bristles say 'Hush, hush.' The tin-and- 
static sound of CQBC has been silenced, he can hear Bertraund moving about rattling 
some pans and dropping one, and Lucien works his sharp-pointed broom against the 
chipped Portuguese tile of the nonwood floor. He is a gifted domestic, the best 125-kilo 
domestic ever to wear a beard and suspenders of small-arms ordnance. The shop, 
crammed to the acoustic-tile ceiling and dustless, resembles a junkyard for anal 
retentives. He bobs and sweeps, and bobbing shafts of mirror-light gleam and dance, 
backed by night, in the locked door's pane. The figure in the wheelchair still labors at his 
wheels, but appears, queerly, still to be where he was before, in front of the Portuguese 
grocery. Moving closer to the pane, so that his face's transparent image fills the glass 
and he can now see clearly beyond it, Lucien sees that what it is is it's a different figure 
in a different wheelchair from the one before, this new figure's face also downcasted 
and queerly masked, laboring around the sidewalk's jagged holes; and that not too far 
behind this seated figure is yet another figure in a wheelchair, coming this way; and as 
Lucien Antitoi twists his head and presses his hairy cheek to the glass of the squeaking 
door — except but now how can a door's upper hinge loudly squeak when the door is 
tightly closed and the bolt driven home with the solid snick of a .44 bullet slipping home 



in a revolver's chamber? — looking due southeast up Prospect, Lucien can see the 
variegated glints of passing low-chassis headlights off a whole long single-file column of 
polished metal wheels stolidly turning, being turned by swarthy hands in fingerless 
wheelchair-gloves. 'Squeak.' 'Squeak.' Lucien has been hearing squeaks for several 
minutes from what he had naively like the babe assumed was the door's upper hinge. 
This hinge does truly squeak. 206 But Lucien now hears whole systems of squeaks, slow 
and soft but not stealthy squeaks, the squeaks of weighted wheelchairs moving slow, 
implacable, calm and businesslike and yet menacing, moving with the indifference of 
things at the very top of the food-chain; and, now, turning, heart loud in his head, can 
now see, in the carefully placed display mirrors' angles, spikes of light off rotary metal 
rotating at a height about waist-level to a huge standing man w/ broom clutched to 
barrel chest, there are great quiet numbers of persons in wheelchairs moving in the 
room with him, in the shoproom, moving calmly into position behind waist-high glass 
counters full of wacky notions. The street outside is flanked on both sidewalks by defiles 
of wheelchaired, blanket-lapped persons whose faces are obscured by what look like 
large and snow-dotted leaves, and the shades of the Portuguese grocery have been 
drawn and a ROPAS sign hung by a circumflex of twine in the pane of the front door. 
Wheelchair Assassins. Lucien has been taught the glyph of a profiled wheelchair with an 
enormous bone-crossed skull below. It is the worst possible scenario; it is worse than 
O.N.A.N.ite gendarmes by far: A.F.R. Whimpering to his broom, Lucien disengages the 
mammoth Colt from his pants and finds that a length of black thread from the denim 
panel that surrounds his zipper has gotten looped around the barrel's sight-blade and 
comes ripping out with a long high squeak from the pants with the convulsive force of 
his drawing the weapon, so that his pants split open alongside the zipper and the force 
of his mammoth Canadian gut extends the tear all up and down the front so that the 
snap unsnaps and the jeans burst open and fall immediately to his ankles, puddling 
around his hobnail boots, revealing red union-suit underwear beneath and forcing 
Lucien to take tiny undignified shuffling steps frantically toward the back room as he 
tries with the thread-snagged Colt to cover every piece of fragmented waist-high motion 
the mirror's shards of light reveal in the shoproom while scuttling as fast as the fallen 
jeans allow toward the back room to alert, nonverbally, using the sort of demon-eyed 
tongue-protruded neck-corded tortured rigid bug-eyed face a small child makes when 
he is playing Le Monstre, to alert Bertraund that They have come, not Bostonian 
gendarmes or white-suited O.N.A.N.ite chiens but They, Them, Les Assassins des 
Fauteuils Rollents, A.F.R.s, the ones who come always in the twilight, implacably 
squeaking, and cannot be reasoned with or bargained with, feel no pity or remorse, or 
fear (except a rumored fear of steep hills), and now they're all in here all over the 
shoproom like faceless rats, the devil's own hamsters, moving with placid squeaks just 
beyond view of the shop's mirrored peripheries, regally serene; and Lucien, with the big 
broom in one hand and the thread-webbed Colt in the other, tries to cover his little- 
stepped flight with a thunderous shot that goes high and shatters an angled full-length 
planar door-mirror, spraying anodized glass and replacing the reflection of a blanket- 
lapped A.F.R. wearing a plastic fleur-de-lis-with-sword-stem mask on his face with a 
jagged stelliform hole, with glittered shards and glass-dust in the air all over the place 



and the imperturbable squeaks — 'squeak squeak squeak squeak,' it is awful — 
sounding right through clatter and tinkle and frantic hobnailed bootfalls, and through 
the flying glass, aiming every which way behind him, Lucien bursts almost falling 
through the curtains, bug-eyed and corded and webbed in thread, to alert Bertraund 
facially that the shot had signified A.F.R.s and to break out the sub-cot weaponry and 
prepare to bunker for encirclement, only to horrifically see the shop's rear service door 
standing agape in a gritty breeze and Bertraund still at the card table they use for their 
supper — used — with pea soup and troubling meat-patty still on his ration-tray, sitting, 
squinting piratically straight ahead, with a railroad spike in his eye. The spike, its tip is 
both domed and squared, also rusty, and it protrudes from the socket of his brother's 
former blue right eye. There are maybe about six or nine A.F.R. here in the drafty back 
room, silent as ever, seated with motionless wheels, flannel blankets obscuring an 
absence of the legs, also of course flannel-shirted, masked in synthetic-blend heraldic- 
flag irises with flaming transper^ant stems at the chin and slits for eyes and round utter 
holes for mouths — all except for one particular of the A.F.R., in an unpretentious 
sportcoat and tie and the worst mask of all, a plain yellow polyresin circle with an 
obscenely simple smily-face in thin black lines, who is speculatively dipping a baguette's 
heel in Bertraund's metal soup-cup and popping the bread into his mask's mouth's 
cheery hole with an elegantly cerise-gloved hand. Lucien, staring goggle-eyed at the only 
brother he's ever had, is standing very still, face still unwittingly teratoid, the broom at 
an angle in his hand, the Colt dangling at his side, and the long black zipper-thread he's 
pulled from his zipper caught somehow now and wrapped around his thumb and hung 
trailing on the spotless floor with slack between gun and thumb, his pants woppsed 
around his red woolen ankles, when he hears a quick efficient squeak and feels from 
behind a tremendous wallop on the backs of his knees that drives him down to his knees 
on the floor, the .44 bucking as it discharges by reflex into the wood-pattern Portuguese 
tile, so that he's down in a supplicant's posture on his red knees, encircled by fauteuils 
des rollents, still holding his broom but now down near the broom-corn's wire binding; 
his face is now of equal height to the yellow empty smiling chewing face of the A.F.R. as 
this leader — everything about him radiates pitiless and remorseless command — 
rotates a right wheel to bring himself about and with three squeakless rotations has his 
hideous blank black smile within cm. of Lucien Antitoi's face. The A.F.R. bids him "7? soir, 
'sieur,' which means nothing to Lucien Antitoi, whose chin has caved and lips are 
quivering, though his eyes are not what you would call jacklighted or terrified eyes. 
Lucien's brother's pierced and rigid profile is visible over the leader's left shoulder. The 
man still has some soup-sopped bread in his glove's left hand. 

'Malheureusement, ton collegue est decide. II faisait une excellente soupe aux pois.' 
He looks amused. 'Non? Ou c'etait toi, faisait-elle?' The leader leans forward in the 
graceful way people who always sit can lean, revealing wiry hair and a small and 
strangely banal bald-spot, and gently removes the hot revolver from Lucien's hand. He 
engages the safety without having to look at the revolver. Spanish-language music is 
thinly audible from somewhere up above the alley. The A.F.R. looks warmly into Lucien's 
eyes for a moment, then with a professionally vicious backhanded motion pegs the gun 
at Bertraund's profiled head, striking Bertraund in the side of the head; and Bertraund 



rocks away and then toward and forward and slides forward-left off the rickety 
camping-chair and with a ghastly and moist thump comes to rest chairless but upright, 
his left hip on the floor, the eye's sturdy railroad spike's thick tip caught on the edge of 
the card table and tilted up as the table tilts downward and cookery slides nautically off 
and onto the tile as the weight of Bertraund's large upper body is somehow held by the 
spike and tilted table. His brother's face is now turned away from Lucien, and his overall 
posture is of some person crumpled with hilarity or regret, maybe beer — a man 
overcome. Lucien, who never has apprehended what the safety-switch is or where, 
thinks it a small miracle that the Colt .44 with its tail of thread does not discharge again 
as it wangs off Bertraund's temple and hits the slick tile and slides from sight under a 
cot. Somewhere in the tall house next door a toilet flushes, and the back room's pipes 
sing. The black thread has remained snagged on the Colt's sight-blade and in the middle 
caught somewhere on Bertraund's ear; the other remains also attached to Lucien by a 
persistent hangnail on his well-gnawed right thumb, so that a black filament still 
connects the knelt Lucien to his hidden revolver, with a surreal angled turn at the ear of 
his overcome frere. 

The happy-masked A.F.R. leader, politely ignoring the fact that Lucien's sphincter has 
failed them all in the small room, after complimenting them both on the craftsmanship 
of some of the front's blown-glass notions, pulls his velvet gloves tighter and tells Lucien 
that it has fallen to him, Lucien, to direct their attention without delay to an 
entertainment item they have come here to acquire. And require, this Copy-Capable 
item. They are here on business, ne pas plaisanter, this is not the social call. They will 
acquire this thing and then iront paitre. They have no wish to disturb anyone's repast, 
but the A.F.R. fears that it is fearfully urgent and key, this Master item they now require 
without delay or dissembly from Lucien — entend-il? 

The vigor with which Lucien shakes his head at the leader's meaningless sounds can't 
help but be misinterpreted, probably. 

Does this shop have the 585-rpm-drive TP somewhere about here, for running 
Masters? 

Same vigorous negative-looking denial of comprehension. 

Can a mask's drawn smile widen? 

From the front of the shop come whole symphonies of squeaks and low trilled r's and 
the sounds of a densely packed area being swiftly dismantled and searched. A few 
legless thick-armed men climb the shelves by hand and hang up near the drop-ceiling by 
special climbing equipment and suction-cups fitted to their stumps, brown arms busy in 
the upper shelving, dismantling and searching upside-down like obscene industrious 
bugs. The outline of Lucien's quivering mouth is being traced by a mammoth-torso'd 
A.F.R. in a Jesuitical collar who holds Lucien's own trusty broom inverted and leans in his 
chair to caress Lucien's full Gaspe-provincial lips (the lips are quivering) with the 
handle's wicked tip, which is sharply white, whittled free of the sienna glaze of 
broomstick-varnish that patinas the rest of the big stick's length. Lucien's lips are 
quivering not so much from fear — although there is certainly fear — but not from fear 
so much as in an attempt to form words. 207 Words that are not and can never be words 
are sought by Lucien here through what he guesses to be the maxillofacial movements 



of speech, and there is a childlike pathos to the movements that perhaps the rigid- 
grinned A.F.R. leader can sense, perhaps that is why his sigh is sincere, his complaint 
sincere when he complains that what will follow will be inutile , Lucien's failure to assist 
will be inutile , there will be no point serviced, there are several dozen highly trained and 
motivated wheelchaired personnel here who will find whatever they seek and more, 
anyhow, perhaps it is sincere, the Gallic shrug and fatigue of the voice through the 
leader's mask-hole, as Lucien's leonine head is tilted back by a hand in his hair and his 
mouth opened wide by callused fingers that appear overhead and around the sides of 
his head from behind and jack his writhing mouth open so wide that the tendons in his 
jaws tear audibly and Lucien's first sounds are reduced from howls to a natal gargle as 
the pale wicked tip of the broom he loves is inserted, the wood piney-tasting then white 
tasteless pain as the broom is shoved in and abruptly down by the big and collared 
A.F.R., thrust farther in rhythmically in strokes that accompany each syllable in the 
wearily repeated 'In-U-Tile' of the technical interviewer, down into Lucien's wide throat 
and lower, small natal cries escaping around the brown-glazed shaft, the strangled 
impeded sounds of absolute aphonia, the landed-fish gasps that accompany 
speechlessness in a dream, the cleric-collared A.F.R. driving the broom home now to 
half its length, up on his stumps to get downward leverage as the fibers that protect the 
esophagal terminus resist and then give with a crunching pop and splat of red that 
bathes Lucien's teeth and tongue and makes of itself in the air a spout, and his gargled 
sounds now sound drowned; and behind fluttering lids the aphrasiac half-cellular 
insurgent who loves only to sweep and dance in a clean pane sees snow on the round 
hills of his native Gaspe, pretty curls of smoke from chimneys, his mother's linen apron, 
her kind red face above his crib, homemade skates and cider-steam, Chic-Choc lakes 
seen stretching away from the Cap-Chat hillside they skied down to Mass, the red face's 
noises he knows from the tone are tender, beyond crib and rimed window Gaspesie lake 
after lake after lake lit up by the near-Arctic sun and stretching out in the southeastern 
distance like chips of broken glass thrown to scatter across the white Chic-Choc country, 
gleaming, and the river Ste.-Anne a ribbon of light, unspeakably pure; and as the culcate 
handle navigates the inguinal canal and sigmoid with a queer deep full hot tickle and 
with a grunt and shove completes its passage and forms an obscene erectile bulge in the 
back of his red sopped Johns, bursting then through the wool and puncturing tile and 
floor at a police-lock's canted angle to hold him upright on his knees, completely 
skewered, and as the attentions of the A.F.R.s in the little room are turned from him to 
the shelves and trunks of the Antitois' sad insurgents' lives, and Lucien finally dies, 
rather a while after he's quit shuddering like a clubbed muskie and seemed to them to 
die, as he finally sheds his body's suit, Lucien finds his gut and throat again and newly 
whole, clean and unimpeded, and is free, catapulted home over fans and the 
Convexity's glass palisades at desperate speeds, soaring north, sounding a bell-clear and 
nearly maternal alarmed call-to-arms in all the world's well-known tongues. 



PRE DAWN, 1 MAY Y.D.A.U. OUTCROPPING NORTHWEST OF 


TUCSON AZ U.S.A., STILL 


M. Hugh Steeply spoke quietly, after a prolonged silence of both operatives alone with 
their thoughts, upon this mountain. Steeply faced still out, standing on the 
outcropping's lip, bare arms around him for some warmth, his dress's soiled back to 
Marathe. Around the bonfire, far out below upon the desert floor, rotated a ring of 
smaller and palsied fires, persons carrying torches or fires. 

'Do you ever think of viewing it?' 

Marathe did not reply. It was not impossible that the young persons carrying the 
torches were dancing. 

'Whether or not the A.F.R. ever even recover this alleged Master copy from the 
DuPlessis burglary,' Steeply said quietly; 'still, you guys have a Read-Only copy, at least 
one, you've told us, no?' 

'Yes.' 

'Nobody has this mysterious Master, but we've all got Read-Only's — all the anti- 
O.N.A.N. cells have at least one Read-Only, we're pretty sure.' 

Marathe said, 'M. BrullTme, he tells Fortier he thinks the CPCP of Alberta do not have 
any copy.' 

'Fuck the Albertans,' Steeply said. 'Who's worried about the Albertans? The Albertans' 
idea of a blow to the U.S. plexus is they blow up rangeland in Montana. They're wackos.' 

'I have not been tempted,' Marathe said. 

Steeply's sound appeared as if he did not hear. 'We have more than one. Copies. Sure 
we can assume your boys know this.' 

Marathe dryly laughed. 'Confiscated from razzles of Berkeley, Boston. But who can 
know what is on them? Who can study the Entertainment while detached?' 

Steeply's scratch on the arm had become overnight puffed, and there were cross- 
hatches of his scratching. 'But just between us two, though. Tete to tete. You've never 
been even slightly tempted? I mean personally. You the person. Wife's condition be 
damned. Kids be damned. Just for a second, slip into wherever you guys keep it and load 
it and have a quick look? To see what's all the fuss, the irresistible pull of the thing?' He 
pivoted on one heel and looked, and cocked his head in a way of cynicism that seemed 
to Marathe consummately U.S.A. 

Marathe coughed softly into his fist. His own dead father's Kenbeck pacemaker, it had 
been damaged accidentally by a videophonic pulse of waves. This from a telephone call 
from the telephone company, a video call, advertising the videophony. M. Marathe had 
picked up the ringing telephone; the videophonic pulse, it had come; M. Marathe had 
fallen, still holding a telephone Remy had never been instructed to answer first, to 
check. The advertisement, which was recorded, played its audible portion out upon the 



floor beside his father's ear, audible between Marathe's mother's cries. 

Steeply raised and lowered himself on his shoes' toes. 'Us, Rod the God Tine's got Tom 
Flatto's I/O boys running tests around the clock. 24-dash-7.' 

'Flatto, Thomas M., B.S.S. director of Input/Output testing, resident of Falls Church's 
community, a widower with three children, one child with cystic fibrosis.' 

'Funny as an impacted follicle, Remy. And no doubt the insurgent cells are all each 
doing work of your own, you guys with your own Dr. Brullent or whomever, trying to 
find out what the Entertainment's appeal could be without sacrificing any of your own.' 
Steeply again turned; he did this for emphasis. 'Or maybe you're willingly sacrificing your 
own. Yes? Willing volunteers in chairs. Sacrificing self for the Greater and all that. By 
adult choice and all that. Just for the sake of causing us harm. Wouldn't even want to 
think about how the A.F.R.'s conducting tests of the thing.' 

'C'est per.' 

'But not so much for content,' Steeply said. 'Input/Output's exhaustive testing. Flatto's 
got them working on conditions and environments for possible nonlethal viewing. 
Certain departments in Virginia, the developing theory is that it's holography.' 

'The samizdat.' 

'The filmmaker'd been a cutting-edge optics man. Flolography, diffraction. He'd used 
holography a couple times before, and in the context of a kind of filmed assault on the 
viewer. Fie was of the Hostile School or some such shit.' 

'Also a maker of reflecting panels for thermal weapons, and an important Annulateur, 
also, and amasser of the capital from opticals, before hostility and film,' Marathe said. 

Steeply embraced himself. 'Tom Flatto's personal theory is the appeal's got something 
to do with density. The visual compulsion. Theory's that with a really sophisticated piece 
of holography you'd get the neural density of an actual stage play without losing the 
selective realism of the viewer-screen. That the density plus the realism might be too 
much to take. Dick Desai in Data Production wants to go in with ALGOL and see if there 
are Fourier Equations in the root code's ALGOL, which would signify hologrammatical 
activity going on.' 

'M. Fortier finds the theories of content irrelevant.' 

Steeply cocked his head sometimes in a way that was both feminine and birdlike. He 
did this most often during silences. Also he again removed something small from his 
painted lip. Also he spoke with more feminine inflection. Marathe committed all this to 
his memories. 



WINTER, B.S. 1963, SEPULVEDA CA 


I remember 208 I was eating lunch and reading something dull by Bazin when my father 
came into the kitchen and made himself a tomato juice beverage and said that as soon 
as I was finished he and my mother needed my help in their bedroom. My father had 
spent the morning at the commercial studio and was still all in white, with his wig with 
its rigid white parted hair, and hadn't yet removed the television makeup that gave his 
real face an orange cast in daylight. I hurried up and finished and rinsed my dishes in the 
sink and proceeded down the hall to the master bedroom. My mother and father were 
both in there. The master bedroom's valance curtains and the heavy lightproof curtain 
behind them were all slid back and the Venetian blinds up, and the daylight was very 
bright in the room, the decor of which was white and blue and powder-blue. 

My father was bent over my parents' large bed, which was stripped of bedding all the 
way down to the mattress protector. He was bent over, pushing down on the bed's 
mattress with the heels of his hands. The bed's sheets and pillows and powder-blue 
coverlet were all in a pile on the carpet next to the bed. Then my father handed me his 
tumbler of tomato juice to hold for him and got all the way on top of the bed and knelt 
on it, pressing down vigorously on the mattress with his hands, putting all his weight 
into it. He bore down hard on one area of the mattress, then let up and pivoted slightly 
on his knees and bore down with equal vigor on a different area of the mattress. He did 
this all over the bed, sometimes actually walking around on the mattress on his knees to 
get at different areas of the mattress, then bearing down on them. I remember thinking 
the bearing-down action looked very much like emergency compression of a heart 
patient's chest. I remember my father's tomato juice had grains of pepperish material 
floating on the surface. My mother was standing at the bedroom window, smoking a 
long cigarette and looking at the lawn, which I had watered before I ate lunch. The 
uncovered window faced south. The room blazed with sunlight. 

'Eureka,' my father said, pressing down several times on one particular spot. 

I asked whether I could ask what was going on. 

'Goddamn bed squeaks,' he said. He stayed on his knees over the one particular spot, 
bearing down on it repeatedly. There was now a squeaking sound from the mattress 
when he bore down on the spot. My father looked up and over at my mother next to 
the bedroom window. 'Do you or do you not hear that?' he said, bearing down and 
letting up. My mother tapped her long cigarette into a shallow ashtray she held in her 
other hand. She watched my father press down on the squeaking spot. 

Sweat was running in dark orange lines down my father's face from under his rigid 
white professional wig. My father served for two years as the Man from Glad, 
representing what was then the Glad Flaccid Plastic Receptacle Co. of Zanesville, Ohio, 
via a California-based advertising agency. The tunic, tight trousers, and boots the agency 
made him wear were also white. 



My father pivoted on his knees and swung his body around and got off the mattress 
and put his hand at the small of his back and straightened up, continuing to look at the 
mattress. 

'This miserable cock-sucking bed your mother felt she needed to hang on to and bring 
with us out here for quote sentimental value has started squeaking,' my father said. His 
saying 'your mother' indicated that he was addressing himself to me. He held his hand 
out for his tumbler of tomato juice without having to look at me. He stared darkly down 
at the bed. 'It's driving us fucking nuts.' 

My mother balanced her cigarette in her shallow ashtray and laid the ashtray on the 
windowsill and bent over from the foot of the bed and bore down on the spot my father 
had isolated, and it squeaked again. 

'And at night this one spot here we've isolated and identified seems to spread and 
metastisate until the whole Goddamn bed's replete with squeaks.' He drank some of his 
tomato juice. 'Areas that gibber and squeak,' my father said, 'until we both feel as if 
we're being eaten by rats.' He felt along the line of his jaw. 'Boiling hordes of gibbering 
squeaking ravenous rapacious rats,' he said, almost trembling with irritation. 

I looked down at the mattress, at my mother's hands, which tended to flake in dry 
climates. She carried a small bottle of moisturizing lotion at all times. 

My father said, 'And I have personally had it with the aggravation.' He blotted his 
forehead on his white sleeve. 

I reminded my father that he'd mentioned needing my help with something. At that 
age I was already taller than both my parents. My mother was taller than my father, 
even in his boots, but much of her height was in her legs. My father's body was denser 
and more substantial. 

My mother came around to my father's side of the bed and picked the bedding up off 
the floor. She started folding the sheets very precisely, using both arms and her chin. 
She stacked the folded bedding neatly on top of her dresser, which I remember was 
white lacquer. 

My father looked at me. 'What we need to do here, Jim, is take the mattress and box 
spring off the bed frame under here,' my father said, 'and expose the frame.' He took 
time out to explain that the bed's bottom mattress was hard-framed and known 
uniformly as a box spring. I was looking at my sneakers and making my feet alternately 
pigeon-toed and then penguin-toed on the bedroom's blue carpet. My father drank 
some of his tomato juice and looked down at the edge of the bed's metal frame and felt 
along the outline of his jaw, where his commercial studio makeup ended abruptly at the 
turtleneck collar of his white commercial tunic. 

'The frame on this bed is old,' he told me. 'It's probably older than you are. Right now 
I'm thinking the thing's bolts have maybe started coming loose, and that's what's 
gibbering and squeaking at night.' He finished his tomato juice and held the glass out for 
me to take and put somewhere. 'So we want to move all this top crap out of the way, 
entirely' — he gestured with one arm — 'entirely out of the way, get it out of the room, 
and expose the frame, and see if we don't maybe just need to tighten up the bolts.' 

I wasn't sure where to put my father's empty glass, which had juice residue and grains 
of pepper along the inside's sides. I poked at the mattress and box spring a little bit with 



my foot. 'Are you sure it isn't just the mattress?' I said. The bed's frame's bolts struck me 
as a rather exotic first-order explanation for the squeaking. 

My father gestured broadly. 'Synchronicity surrounds me. Concord,' he said. 'Because 
that's what your mother thinks it is, also.' My mother was using both hands to take the 
blue pillowcases off all five of their pillows, again using her chin as a clamp. The pillows 
were all the overplump polyester fiberfill kind, because of my father's allergies. 

'Great minds think alike,' my father said. 

Neither of my parents had any interest in hard science, though a great uncle had 
accidentally electrocuted himself with a field series generator he was seeking to patent. 

My mother stacked the pillows on top of the neatly folded bedding on her dresser. 
She had to get up on her tiptoes to put the folded pillowcases on top of the pillows. I 
had started to move to help her, but I couldn't decide where to put the empty tomato 
juice glass. 

'But you just want to hope it isn't the mattress,' father said. 'Or the box spring.' 

My mother sat down on the foot of the bed and got out another long cigarette and lit 
it. She carried a little leatherette snap-case for both her cigarettes and her lighter. 

My father said, 'Because a new frame, even if we can't get the bolts squared away on 
this one and I have to go get a new one. A new frame. It wouldn't be too bad, see. Even 
top-shelf bed frames aren't that expensive. But new mattresses are outrageously 
expensive.' He looked at my mother. 'And I mean fucking outrageous.' He looked down 
at the back of my mother's head. 'And we bought a new box spring for this sad excuse 
for a bed not five years ago.' He was looking down at the back of my mother's head as if 
he wanted to confirm that she was listening. My mother had crossed her legs and was 
looking with a certain concentration either at or out the master bedroom window. Our 
home's whole subdivision was spread along a severe hillside, which meant that the view 
from my parents' bedroom on the first floor was of just sky and sun and a foreshortened 
declivity of lawn. The lawn sloped at an average angle of 55° and had to be mowed 
horizontally. None of the subdivision's lawns had trees yet. 'Of course that was during a 
seldom-discussed point in time when your mother had to assume the burden of 
assuming responsibility for finances in the household,' my father said. He was now 
perspiring very heavily, but still had his white professional toupee on, and still looked at 
my mother. 

My father acted, throughout our time in California, as both symbol and spokesman for 
the Glad F.P.R. Co.'s Individual Sandwich Bag Division. He was the first of two actors to 
portray the Man from Glad. He was inserted several times a month in a mock-up of a car 
interior, where he would be filmed in a tight trans-windshield shot receiving an 
emergency radio summons to some household that was having a portable-food-storage 
problem. He was then inserted opposite an actress in a generic kitchen-interior set, 
where he would explain how a particular species of Glad Sandwich Bag was precisely 
what the doctor ordered for the particular portable-food-storage problem at issue. In 
his vaguely medical uniform of all white, he carried an air of authority and great evident 
conviction, and earned what I always gathered was an impressive salary, for those 
times, and received, for the first time in his career, fan mail, some of which bordered on 
the disturbing, and which he sometimes liked to read out loud at night in the living 



room, loudly and dramatically, sitting up with a nightcap and fan mail long after my 
mother and I had gone to bed. 

I asked whether I could excuse myself for a moment to take my father's empty tomato 
juice glass out to the kitchen sink. I was worried that the residue along the inside sides 
of the tumbler would harden into the kind of precipitate that would be hard to wash off. 

'For Christ's sake Jim just put the thing down,' my father said. 

I put the tumbler down on the bedroom carpet over next to the base of my mother's 
dresser, pressing down to create a kind of circular receptacle for it in the carpet. My 
mother stood up and went back over by the bedroom window with her ashtray. We 
could tell she was getting out of our way. 

My father cracked his knuckles and studied the path between the bed and the 
bedroom door. 

I said I understood my part here to be to help my father move the mattress and box 
spring off the suspect bed frame and well out of the way. My father cracked his knuckles 
and replied that I was becoming almost fright-eningly quick and perceptive. He went 
around between the foot of the bed and my mother at the window. He said, 'I want to 
let's just stack it all out in the hall, to get it the hell out of here and give us some room to 
maneuver.' 

'Right,' I said. 

My father and I were now on opposite sides of my parents' bed. My father rubbed his 
hands together and bent and worked his hands between the mattress and box spring 
and began to lift the mattress up from his side of the bed. When his side of the mattress 
had risen to the height of his shoulders, he somehow inverted his hands and began 
pushing his side up rather than lifting it. The top of his wig disappeared behind the rising 
mattress, and his side rose in an arc to almost the height of the white ceiling, exceeded 
90°, toppled over, and began to fall over down toward me. The mattress's overall 
movement was like the crest of a breaking wave, I remember. I spread my arms and 
took the impact of the mattress with my chest and face, supporting the angled mattress 
with my chest, outspread arms, and face. All I could see was an extreme close-up of the 
woodland floral pattern of the mattress protector. 

The mattress, a Simmons Beauty Rest whose tag said that it could not by law be 
removed, now formed the hypotenuse of a right dihedral triangle whose legs were 
myself and the bed's box spring. I remember visualizing and considering this triangle. My 
legs were trembling under the mattress's canted weight. My father exhorted me to hold 
and support the mattress. The respectively sharp plastic and meaty human smells of the 
mattress and protector were very distinct because my nose was mashed up against 
them. 

My father came around to my side of the bed, and together we pushed the mattress 
back up until it stood up at 90° again. We edged carefully apart and each took one end 
of the upright mattress and began jockeying it off the bed and out the bedroom door 
into the uncarpeted hallway. 

This was a King-Size Simmons Beauty Rest mattress. It was massive but had very little 
structural integrity. It kept curving and curling and wobbling. My father exhorted both 
me and the mattress. It was flaccid and floppy as we tried to jockey it. My father had an 



especially hard time with his half of the mattress's upright weight because of an old 
competitive-tennis injury. 

While we were jockeying it on its side off the bed, part of the mattress on my father's 
end slipped and flopped over and down onto a pair of steel reading lamps, adjustable 
cubes of brushed steel attached by toggle bolts to the white wall over the head of the 
bed. The lamps took a solid hit from the mattress, and one cube was rotated all the way 
around on its toggle so that its open side and bulb now pointed at the ceiling. The joint 
and toggle made a painful squeaking sound as the cube was wrenched around upward. 
This was also when I became aware that even the reading lamps were on in the daylit 
room, because a faint square of direct lamplight, its four sides rendered slightly concave 
by the distortion of projection, appeared on the white ceiling above the skewed cube. 
But the lamps didn't fall off. They remained attached to the wall. 

'God damn it to hell,' my father said as he regained control of his end of the mattress. 

My father also said, 'Fucking son of a...' when the mattress's thickness made it difficult 
for him to squeeze through the doorway still holding his end. 

In time we were able to get my parents' giant mattress out in the narrow hallway that 
ran between the master bedroom and the kitchen. I could hear another terrible squeak 
from the bedroom as my mother tried to realign the reading lamp whose cube had been 
inverted. Drops of sweat were falling from my father's face onto his side of the mattress, 
darkening part of the protector's fabric. My father and I tried to lean the mattress at a 
slight supporting angle against one wall of the hallway, but because the floor of the 
hallway was uncarpeted and didn't provide sufficient resistance, the mattress wouldn't 
stay upright. Its bottom edge slid out from the wall all the way across the width of the 
hallway until it met the baseboard of the opposite wall, and the upright mattress's top 
edge slid down the wall until the whole mattress sagged at an extremely concave 
slumped angle, a dry section of the woodland floral mattress protector stretched drum- 
tight over the slumped crease and the springs possibly damaged by the deforming con¬ 
cavity. 

My father looked at the canted concave mattress sagging across the width of the hall 
and moved one end of it a little with the toe of his boot and looked at me and said, 'Fuck 
it.' 

My bow tie was rumpled and at an angle. 

My father had to walk unsteadily across the mattress in his white boots to get back to 
my side of the mattress and the bedroom behind me. On his way across he stopped and 
felt speculatively at his jaw, his boots sunk deep in woodland floral cotton. He said 'Fuck 
it' again, and I remember not being clear about what he was referring to. Then my 
father turned and started unsteadily back the way he had come across the mattress, 
one hand against the wall for support. He instructed me to wait right there in the 
hallway for one moment while he darted into the kitchen at the other end of the hall on 
a very brief errand. His steadying hand left four faint smeared prints on the wall's white 
paint. 

My parents' bed's box spring, though also King-Size and heavy, had just below its 
synthetic covering a wooden frame that gave the box spring structural integrity, and it 
didn't flop or alter its shape, and after another bit of difficulty for my father — who was 



too thick through the middle, even with the professional girdle beneath his Glad 
costume — after another bit of difficulty for my father squeezing with his end of the box 
spring through the bedroom doorway, we were able to get it into the hall and lean it 
vertically at something just over 70° against the wall, where it stayed upright with no 
problem. 

'That's the way she wants doing, Jim,' my father said, clapping me on the back in 
exactly the ebullient way that had prompted me to have my mother buy an elastic 
athletic cranial strap for my glasses. I had told my mother I needed the strap for tennis 
purposes, and she had not asked any questions. 

My father's hand was still on my back as we returned to the master bedroom. 'Right, 
then!' my father said. His mood was now elevated. There was a brief second of 
confusion at the doorway as each of us tried to step back to let the other through first. 

There was now nothing but the suspect frame left where the bed had been. There was 
something exoskeletal and frail-looking about the bed frame, a plain low-ratio rectangle 
of black steel. At each corner of the rectangle was a caster. The casters' wheels had sunk 
into the pile carpet under the weight of the bed and my parents and were almost 
completely submerged in the carpet's fibers. Each of the frame's sides had a narrow 
steel shelf welded at 90° to its interior's base, so that a single rectangular narrow shelf 
perpendicular to the frame's rectangle ran all around the frame's interior. This shelf was 
obviously there to support the bed's occupants and King-Size box spring and mattress. 

My father seemed frozen in place. I cannot remember what my mother was doing. 
There seemed to be a long silent interval of my father looking closely at the exposed 
frame. The interval had the silence and stillness of dusty rooms immersed in sunlight. I 
briefly imagined every piece of furniture in the bedroom covered with sheets and the 
room unoccupied for years as the sun rose and crossed and fell outside the window, the 
room's daylight becoming staler and staler. I could hear two power lawnmowers of 
slightly different pitch from somewhere down our subdivision's street. The direct light 
through the master bedroom's window swam with rotating columns of raised dust. I 
remember it seemed the ideal moment for a sneeze. 

Dust lay thick on the frame and even hung from the frame's interior support-shelf in 
little gray beards. It was impossible to see any bolts anywhere on the frame. 

My father blotted sweat and wet makeup from his forehead with the back of his 
sleeve, which was now dark orange with makeup. 'Jesus will you look at that mess,' he 
said. He looked at my mother. 'Jesus.' 

The carpeting in my parents' bedroom was deep-pile and a darker blue than the pale 
blue of the rest of the bedroom's color scheme. I remember the carpet as more a royal 
blue, with a saturation level somewhere between moderate and strong. The rectangular 
expanse of royal blue carpet that had been hidden under the bed was itself carpeted 
with a thick layer of clotted dust. The rectangle of dust was gray-white and thick and 
unevenly layered, and the only evidence of the room's carpet below was a faint sick 
bluish cast to the dust-layer. It looked as if dust had not drifted under the bed and 
settled on the carpet inside the frame but rather had somehow taken root and grown 
on it, upon it, the way a mold will take root and gradually cover an expanse of spoiled 
food. The layer of dust itself looked a little like spoiled food, bad cottage cheese. It was 



nauseous. Some of the dust-layer's uneven topography was caused by certain lost- and 
litter-type objects that had found their way under the bed — a flyswatter, a roughly 
Variety-sized magazine, some bottletops, three wadded Kleenex, and what was 
probably a sock — and gotten covered and textured in dust. 

There was also a faint odor, sour and fungal, like the smell of an overused bathmat. 

'Jesus, there's even a smell,' my father said. He made a show of inhaling through his 
nose and screwing up his face. 'There's even a fucking smell.' He blotted his forehead 
and felt his jaw and looked hard at my mother. His mood was no longer elevated. My 
father's mood surrounded him like a field and affected any room he occupied, like an 
odor or a certain cast to the light. 

'When was the last time this got cleaned under here?' my father asked my mother. 

My mother didn't say anything. She looked at my father as he moved the steel frame 
around a little with his boot, which raised even more dust into the window's sunlight. 
The bed frame seemed very lightweight, moving back and forth noiselessly on its 
casters' submerged wheels. My father often moved lightweight objects absently around 
with his foot, rather the way other men doodle or examine their cuticles. Rugs, 
magazines, telephone and electrical cords, his own removed shoe. It was one of my 
father's ways of musing or gathering his thoughts or trying to control his mood. 

'Under what presidential administration was this room last deep-cleaned. I'm standing 
here prompted to fucking muse out loud,' my father said. 

I looked at my mother to see whether she was going to say anything in reply. 

I said to my father, 'You know, since we're discussing squeaking beds, my bed squeaks, 
too.' 

My father was trying to squat down to see whether he could locate any bolts on the 
frame, saying something to himself under his breath. He put his hands on the frame for 
balance and almost fell forward when the frame rolled under his weight. 

'But I don't think I even really noticed it until we began to discuss it,' I said. I looked at 
my mother. 'I don't think it bothers me,' I said. 'Actually, I think I kind of like it. I think 
I've gradually gotten so used to it that it's become almost comforting. At this juncture,' I 
said. 

My mother looked at me. 

'I'm not complaining about it,' I said. The discussion just made me think of it.' 

'Oh, we hear your bed, don't you worry,' my father said. He was still trying to squat, 
which drew his corset and the hem of his tunic up and allowed the top of his bottom's 
crack to appear above the the waist of his white pants. He shifted slightly to point up at 
the master bedroom's ceiling. 'You so much as turn over in bed up there? We hear it 
down here.' He took one steel side of the rectangle and shook the frame vigorously, 
sending up a shroud of dust. The bed frame seemed to weigh next to nothing under his 
hands. My mother made a mustache of her finger to hold back a sneeze. 

He shook the frame again. 'But it doesn't aggravate us the way this rodential son of a 
whore right here does.' 

I remarked that I didn't think I'd ever once heard their bed squeak before, from 
upstairs. My father twisted his head around to try to look up at me as I stood there 
behind him. But I said I'd definitely heard and could confirm the presence of a squeak 



when he'd pressed on the mattress, and could verify that the squeak was no one's 
imagination. 

My father held a hand up to signal me to please stop talking. He remained in a squat, 
rocking slightly on the balls of his feet, using the rolling frame to keep his balance. The 
flesh of the top of his bottom and crack-area protruded over the waist of his pants. 
There were also deep red folds in the back of his neck, below the blunt cut of the wig, 
because he was looking up and over at my mother, who was resting her tail bone on the 
sill of the window, still holding her shallow ashtray. 

'Maybe you'd like to go get the vacuum,' he said. My mother put the ashtray down on 
the sill and exited the master bedroom, passing between me and the dresser piled with 
bedding. 'If you can ... if you can remember where it is!' my father called after her. 

I could hear my mother trying to get past the King-Size mattress sagging diagonally 
across the hall. 

My father was rocking more violently on the balls of his feet, and now the rocking had 
the sort of rolling, side-to-side quality of a ship in high seas. He came very close to losing 
his balance as he leaned to his right to get a handkerchief from his hip pocket and began 
using it to reach out and flick dust off something at one corner of the bed frame. After a 
moment he pointed down next to a caster. 

'Bolt,' he said, pointing at the side of a caster. 'Right there's a bolt.' I leaned in over 
him. Drops of my father's perspiration made small dark coins in the dust of the frame. 
There was nothing but smooth lightweight black steel surface where he was pointing, 
but just to the left of where he was pointing I could see what might have been a bolt, a 
little stalactite of clotted dust hanging from some slight protrusion. My father's hands 
were broad and his fingers blunt. Another possible bolt lay several inches to the right of 
where he pointed. His finger trembled badly, and I believe the trembling might have 
been from the muscular strain on his bad knees, trying to hold so much new weight in a 
squat for an extended period. I heard the telephone ring twice. There had been an 
extended silence, with my father pointing at neither protrusion and me trying to lean in 
over him. 

Then, still squatting on the balls of his feet, my father placed both hands on the side of 
the frame and leaned out over the side into the rectangle of dust inside the frame and 
had what at first sounded like a bad coughing fit. His hunched back and rising bottom 
kept me from watching him. I remember deciding that the reason the frame was not 
rolling under his hands' pressure was that my father had so much of his weight on it, 
and that maybe my father's nervous system's response to heavy dust was a cough-signal 
instead of a sneeze-signal. It was the wet sound of material hitting the dust inside the 
rectangle, plus the rising odor, that signified to me that, rather than coughing, my father 
had been taken ill. The spasms involved made his back rise and fall and his bottom 
tremble under his white commercial slacks. It was not too uncommon for my father to 
be taken ill shortly after coming home from work to relax, but now he seemed to have 
been taken really ill. To give him some privacy, I went around the frame to the side of 
the frame closest to the window where there was direct light and less odor and 
examined another of the frame's casters. My father was whispering to himself in brief 
expletive phrases between the spasms of his illness. I squatted easily and rubbed dust 



from a small area of the frame and wiped the dust on the carpet by my feet. There was 
a small carriage-head bolt on either side of the plating that attached the caster to the 
bed frame. I knelt and felt one of the bolts. Its round smooth head made it impossible 
either to tighten or loosen. Putting my cheek to the carpet and examining the bottom of 
the little horizontal shelf welded to the frame's side, I observed that the bolt seemed 
threaded tightly and completely through its hole, and I decided it was doubtful that any 
of the casters' platings' bolts were producing the sounds that reminded my father of 
rodents. 

Just at this time, I remember, there was a loud cracking sound and my area of the 
frame jumped violently as my father's illness caused him to faint and he lost his balance 
and pitched forward and lay prone and asleep over his side of the bed frame, which as I 
rolled away from the frame and rose to my knees I saw was either broken or very badly 
bent. My father lay facedown in the mixture of the rectangle's thick dust and the 
material he'd brought up from his upset stomach. The dust his collapse raised was very 
thick, and as the new dust rose and spread it attenuated the master bedroom's daylight 
as decisively as if a cloud had moved over the sun in the window. My father's 
professional wig had detached and lay scalp-up in the mixture of dust and stomach 
material. The stomach material appeared to be mostly gastric blood until I recalled the 
tomato juice my father had been drinking. He lay face-down, with his bottom high in the 
air, over the side of the bed frame, which his weight had broken in half. This was how I 
accounted for the loud cracking sound. 

I stood out of the way of the dust and the window's dusty light, feeling along the line 
of my jaw and examining my prone father from a distance. I remember that his 
breathing was regular and wet, and that the dust mixture bubbled somewhat. It was 
then that it occurred to me that when I'd been supporting the bed's raised mattress 
with my chest and face preparatory to its removal from the room, the dihedral triangle 
I'd imagined the mattress forming with the box spring and my body had not in fact even 
been a closed figure: the box spring and the floor I had stood on did not constitute a 
continuous plane. 

Then I could hear my mother trying to get the heavy canister vacuum cleaner past the 
angled Simmons Beauty Rest in the hall, and I went to help her. My father's legs were 
stretched out across the clean blue carpet between his side of the frame and my 
mother's white dresser. His feet's boots were at a pigeon-toed angle, and his bottom's 
crack all the way down to the anus itself was now visible because the force of his fall 
had pulled his white slacks down even farther. I stepped carefully between his legs. 

'Excuse me,' I said. 

I was able to help my mother by telling her to detach the vacuum cleaner's 
attachments and hand them one at a time to me over the width of the slumped 
mattress, where I held them. The vacuum cleaner was manufactured by Regina, and its 
canister, which contained the engine, bag, and evacuating fan, was very heavy. I 
reassembled the vacuum and held it while my mother made her way back across the 
mattress, then handed the vacuum cleaner back to her, flattening myself against the 
wall to let her pass by on her way into the master bedroom. 

'Thanks,' my mother said as she passed. 



I stood there by the slumped mattress for several moments of a silence so complete 
that I could hear the street's lawnmowers all the way out in the hall, then heard the 
sound of my mother pulling out the vacuum cleaner's retractable cord and plugging it 
into the same bedside outlet the steel reading lamps were attached to. 

I made my way over the angled mattress and quickly down the hall, made a sharp right 
at the entrance to the kitchen, crossed the foyer to the staircase, and ran up to my 
room, taking several stairs at a time, hurrying to get some distance between myself and 
the vacuum cleaner, because the sound of vacuuming has always frightened me in the 
same irrational way it seemed a bed's squeak frightened my father. 

I ran upstairs and pivoted left at the upstairs landing and went into my room. In my 
room was my bed. It was narrow, a twin bed, with a headboard of wood and frame and 
slats of wood. I didn't know where it had come from, originally. The frame held the 
narrow box spring and mattress much higher off the floor than my parents' bed. It was 
an old-fashioned bed, so high off the floor that you had to put one knee up on the 
mattress and clamber up into it, or else jump. 

That is what I did. For the first time since I had become taller than my parents, I took 
several running strides in from the doorway, past my shelves' collection of prisms and 
lenses and tennis trophies and my scale-model magneto, past my bookcase, the wall's 
still-posters from Powell's Peeping Tom and the closet door and my bedside's high- 
intensity standing lamp, and jumped, doing a full swan dive up onto my bed. I landed 
with my weight on my chest with my arms and legs out from my body on the indigo 
comforter on my bed, squashing my tie and bending my glasses' temples slightly. I was 
trying to make my bed produce a loud squeak, which in the case of my bed I knew was 
caused by any lateral friction between the wooden slats and the frame's interior's shelf¬ 
like slat-support. 

But in the course of the leap and the dive, my overlong arm hit the heavy iron pole of 
the high-intensity standing lamp that stood next to the bed. The lamp teetered violently 
and began to fall over sideways, away from the bed. It fell with a kind of majestic 
slowness, resembling a felled tree. As the lamp fell, its heavy iron pole struck the brass 
knob on the door to my closet, shearing the knob off completely. The round knob and 
half its interior hex bolt fell off and hit my room's wooden floor with a loud noise and 
began then to roll around in a remarkable way, the sheared end of the hex bolt 
stationary and the round knob, rolling on its circumference, circling it in a spherical 
orbit, describing two perfectly circular motions on two distinct axes, a non-Euclidian 
figure on a planar surface, i.e., a cycloid on a sphere: 



The closest conventional analogue I could derive for this figure was a cycloid, 
L'Hopital's solution to Bernoulli's famous Brachistochrone Problem, the curve traced by 
a fixed point on the circumference of a circle rolling along a continuous plane. But since 



here, on the bedroom's floor, a circle was rolling around what was itself the 
circumference of a circle, the cycloid's standard parametric equations were no longer 
apposite, those equations' trigonometric expressions here becoming themselves first- 
order differential equations. 

Because of the lack of resistance or friction against the bare floor, the knob rolled this 
way for a long time as I watched over the edge of the comforter and mattress, holding 
my glasses in place, completely distracted from the minor-D shriek of the vacuum 
below. It occurred to me that the movement of the amputated knob perfectly 
schematized what it would look like for someone to try to turn somersaults with one 
hand nailed to the floor. This was how I first became interested in the possibilities of 
annulation. 


The night after the chilly and sort of awkward joint Interdependence Day picnic for 
Enfield's Ennet House Drug and Alcohol Recovery House, Somerville's Phoenix House, 
and Dorchester's grim New Choice juvenile rehab, Ennet House staffer Johnette Foltz 
took Ken Erdedy and Kate Gompert along with her to this one NA Beginners' Discussion 
Meeting where the focus was always marijuana: how every addict at the meeting had 
gotten in terrible addictive trouble with it right from the first duBois, or else how they'd 
been strung out on harder drugs and had tried switching to grass to get off the original 
drugs and but then had gotten in even terribler trouble with grass than they'd been in 
with the original hard stuff. This was supposedly the only NA meeting in metro Boston 
explicitly devoted to marijuana. Johnette Foltz said she wanted Erdedy and Gompert to 
see how completely nonunique and unalone they were in terms of the Substance that 
had brought them both down. 

There were about maybe two dozen beginning recovering addicts there in the 
anechoic vestry of an upscale church in what Erdedy figured had to be either west 
Belmont or east Waltham. The chairs were arranged in NA's traditional huge circle, with 
no tables to sit at and everybody balancing ashtrays on their knees and accidentally 
kicking over their cups of coffee. Everybody who raised their hand to share concurred 
on the insidious ways marijuana had ravaged their bodies, minds, and spirits: marijuana 
destroys slowly but thoroughly was the consensus. Ken Erdedy's joggling foot knocked 
over his coffee not once but twice as the NAs took turns concurring on the hideous 
psychic fallout they'd all endured both in active marijuana-dependency and then in 
marijuana-detox: the social isolation, anxious lassitude, and the hyperself-consciousness 
that then reinforced the withdrawal and anxiety — the increasing emotional 
abstraction, poverty of affect, and then total emotional catalepsy — the obsessive 
analyzing, finally the paralytic stasis that results from the obsessive analysis of all 
possible implications of both getting up from the couch and not getting up from the 
couch — and then the endless symptomatic gauntlet of Withdrawal from delta-9- 
tetrahydrocannabinol: i.e. pot-detox: the loss of appetite, the mania and insomnia, the 
chronic fatigue and nightmares, the impotence and cessation of menses and lactation, 
the circadian arrhythmia, the sudden sauna-type sweats and mental confusion and fine- 
motor tremors, the particularly nasty excess production of saliva — several beginners 



still holding institutional drool-cups just under their chins — the generalized anxiety and 
foreboding and dread, and the shame of feeling like neither M.D.s nor the hard-drug 
NAs themselves showed much empathy or compassion for the 'addict' brought down by 
what was supposed to be nature's humblest buzz, the benignest Substance around. 

Ken Erdedy noticed that nobody came right out and used the terms melancholy or 
anhedonia or depression, much less clinical depression; but this worst of symptoms, this 
logarithm of all suffering, seemed, though unmentioned, to hang fog-like just over the 
room's heads, to drift between the peristyle columns and over the decorative astrolabes 
and candles on long prickets and medieval knockoffs and framed Knights of Columbus 
charters, a gassy plasm so dreaded no beginner could bear to look up and name it. Kate 
Gompert kept staring at the floor and making a revolver of her forefinger and thumb 
and shooting herself in the temple and then blowing pretend-cordite off the barrel's tip 
until Johnette Foltz whispered to her to knock it off. 

As was his custom at meetings, Ken Erdedy said nothing and observed everybody else 
very closely, cracking his knuckles and joggling his foot. Since an NA 'Beginner' is 
technically anybody with under a year clean, there were varying degrees of denial and 
distress and general cluelessness in this plush upscale vestry. The meeting had the usual 
broad demographic cross-section, but the bulk of these grass-ravaged people looked to 
him urban and tough and busted-up and dressed without any color-sense at all, people 
you could easily imagine smacking their kid in a supermarket or lurking with a 
homemade sap in the dark of a downtown alley. Same as AA. Motley disrespectability 
was like the room norm, along with glazed eyes and excess spittle. A couple of the 
beginners still had the milky plastic I.D. bracelets from psych wards they'd forgotten to 
cut off, or else hadn't yet gotten up the drive to do it. 

Unlike Boston AA, Boston NA has no mid-meeting raffle-break and goes for just an 
hour. At the close of this Monday Beginners' Meeting everybody got up and held hands 
in a circle and recited the NA-Conference-Approved 'Just For Today,' then they all 
recited the Our Father, not exactly in unison. Kate Gompert later swore she distinctly 
heard the tattered older man beside her say 'And lead us not into Penn Station' during 
the Our Father. 

Then, just as in AA, the NA meeting closed with everybody shouting to the air in front 
of them to Keep Coming Back because It Works. 

But then, kind of horrifically, everyone in the room started milling around wildly and 
hugging each other. It was like somebody'd thrown a switch. There wasn't even very 
much conversation. It was just hugging, as far as Erdedy could see. Rampant, 
indiscriminate hugging, where the point seemed to be to hug as many people as 
possible regardless of whether you'd ever seen them before in your life. People went 
from person to person, arms out and leaning in. Big people stooped and short people 
got up on tiptoe. Jowls ground into other jowls. Both genders hugged both genders. And 
the male-to-male hugs were straight embraces, hugs minus the vigorous little thumps 
on the back that Erdedy'd always seen as somehow requisite for male-to-male hugs. 
Johnette Foltz was almost a blur. She went from person to person. She was racking up 
serious numbers of hugs. Kate Gompert had her usual lipless expression of morose 
distaste, but even she gave and got some hugs. But Erdedy — who'd never particularly 



liked hugging — moved way back from the throng, over up next to the NA-Conference- 
Approved-Literature table, and stood there by himself with his hands in his pockets, 
pretending to study the coffee urn with great interest. 

But then a tall heavy Afro-American fellow with a gold incisor and perfect vertical 
cylinder of Afro-American hairstyle peeled away from a sort of group-hug nearby, he'd 
spotted Erdedy, and the fellow came over and established himself right in front of 
Erdedy, spreading the arms of his fatigue jacket for a hug, stooping slightly and leaning 
in toward Erdedy's personal trunk-region. 

Erdedy raised his hands in a benign No Thanks and backed up further so that his 
bottom was squashed up against the edge of the Conference-Approved-Literature table. 

'Thanks, but I don't particularly like to hug,' he said. 

The fellow had to sort of pull up out of his pre-hug lean, and stood there awkwardly 
frozen, with his big arms still out, which Erdedy could see must have been awkward and 
embarrassing for the fellow. Erdedy found himself trying to calculate just what remote 
sub-Asian locale would be the maximum possible number of km. away from this exact 
spot and moment as the fellow just stood there, his arms out and the smile draining 
from his face. 

'Say what?' the fellow said. 

Erdedy proffered a hand. 'Ken E., Ennet House, Enfield. How do you do. You are?' 

The fellow slowly let his arms down but just looked at Erdedy's proffered hand. A 
single styptic blink. 'Roy Tony,' he said. 

'Roy, how do you do.' 

'What it is,' Roy said. The big fellow now had his handshake-hand behind his neck and 
was pretending to feel the back of his neck, which Erdedy didn't know was a blatant dis. 

'Well Roy, if I may call you Roy, or Mr. Tony, if you prefer, unless it's a compound first 
name, hyphenated, "Roy-Tony" and then a last name, but well with respect to this 
hugging thing, Roy, it's nothing personal, rest assured.' 

'Assured?' 

Erdedy's best helpless smile and an apologetic shrug of the GoreTex anorak. 'I'm afraid 
I just don't particularly like to hug. Just not a hugger. Never have been. It was something 
of a joke among my fam—' 

Now the ominous finger-pointing of street-aggression, this Roy fellow pointing first at 
Erdedy's chest and then at his own: 'So man what you say you saying I'm a hugger? You 
saying you think I go around like to hug?' 

Both Erdedy's hands were now up palms-out and waggling in a like bonhommic 
gesture of heading off all possible misunderstanding: 'No but see the whole point is that 
I wouldn't presume to call you either a hugger or a nonhugger because I don't know 
you. I only meant to say it's nothing personal having to do with you as an individual, and 
I'd be more than happy to shake hands, even one of those intricate multiple-handed 
ethnic handshakes if you'll bear with my inexperience with that sort of handshake, but 
I'm simply uncomfortable with the whole idea of hugging.' 

By the time Johnette Foltz could break away and get over to them, the fellow had 
Erdedy by his anorak's insulated lapels and was leaning him way back over the edge of 
the Literature table so that Erdedy's waterproof lodge boots were off the ground, and 



the fellow's face was right up in Erdedy's face in a show of naked aggression: 

'You think I fucking like to go around hug on folks? You think any of us like this shit? 
We fucking do what they tell us. They tell us Hugs Not Drugs in here. We done 
motherfucking surrendered our wills in here,' Roy said. 'You little faggot,' Roy added. He 
wedged his hand between them to point at himself, which meant he was now holding 
Erdedy off the ground with just one hand, which fact was not lost on Erdedy's nervous 
system. 'I done had to give four hugs my first night here and then I gone ran in the 
fucking can and fucking puked. Puked,' he said. 'Not comfortable? Who the fuck are 
you? Don't even try and tell me I'm coming over feeling comfortable about trying to hug 
on your James-River-Traders-wearing-Calvin-Klein-aftershave-smelling-goofy-ass 
motherfucking ass.' 

Erdedy observed one of the Afro-American women who was looking on clap her hands 
and shout 'Talk about it!' 

'And now you go and disrespect me in front of my whole clean and sober set just when 
I gone risk sharing my vulnerab/Vity and discomfort with you?' 

Johnette Foltz was sort of pawing at the back of Roy Tony's fatigue jacket, shuddering 
mentally at how the report of an Ennet House resident assaulted at an NA meeting she'd 
personally brought him to would look written up in the Staff Log. 

'Now,' Roy said, extracting his free hand and pointing to the vestry floor with a 
stabbing gesture, 'now,' he said, 'you gone risk vulnerability and discomfort and hug my 
ass or do I gone fucking rip your head off and shit down your neck?' 

Johnette Foltz had hold of the Roy fellow's coat now with both hands and was trying 
to pull the fellow off, Keds scrabbling for purchase on the smooth parquet, saying 'Yo 
Roy T. man, easy there Dude, Man, Esse, Bro, Posse, Crew, Homes, Jim, Brother, he's 
just new is all'; but by this time Erdedy had both arms around the guy's neck and was 
hugging him with such vigor Kate Gompert later told Joelle van Dyne it looked like 
Erdedy was trying to climb him. 


'We've lost a couple already,' Steeply admitted. 'During the testing. Not just 
volunteers. Some idiot intern in Data Analysis yielded to temptation and wanted to see 
what all the fuss was for and got hold of Flatto's I/O lab's clearance card and went in and 
viewed.' 

'From among the many Read-Only copies of your stock of the Entertainment.' 

'No great tragic loss in itself — lose some idiot-child intern. C'est la guerre. The real 
loss was that his supervisor tried to go in after him and pull him out. Our head of Data 
Analysis himself.' 

'Hoyne, Henri or pronounce "Henry," middle initial of F., with the wife, with his adult 
diabetes he controls.' 

'Did control. Twenty-year man. Hank. Damn good man. He was a friend. He's in four- 
point restraints now. Nourishment through a tube. No desire or even basic survival-type 
will for anything other than more viewing.' 

'Of it.' 

'I tried to visit.' 



'With your sleeveless skirt and different breasts.' 

'I couldn't even stand to be in the same room, see him like that. Begging for just even 
a few seconds — a trailer, a snatch of soundtrack, anything. His eyes wobbling around 
like some drug-addicted newborn. Break your fucking heart. In the next bed, restrained, 
the idiot intern: this was the sort of undisciplined selfish child you like to talk about, 
Remy. But Hank Hoyne was no child. I watched this man put down all sugar and treats 
when he first got diagnosed. Just put them down and walked away. Not even a whimper 
or backward glance.' 

'A will of steel.' 

'An American adult of exemplary self-control and discretion.' 

'The samizdat is not to be played crazily about with, so. We too have lost persons. It is 
serious.' 

The legs of the constellation of Perseus were amputated by the earth's horizon. 
Perseus, he wore the hat of a jongleur or pantalone. Hercules' head, this head was 
square. It was not long to dawn also because at 32° N Pollux and Castor became visible. 
They were over Marathe's left shoulder, as if giants were looking over his shoulder, one 
of Castor's legs inbent in a feminine manner. 

'But do you ever consider?' Steeply lit another cigarette. 

'Fantasize, you are meaning.' 

'If it's that consuming. If it somehow addresses desires that total,' Steeply said. 'Not 
even sure I can imagine what desires that total and utter even are.' Up and down upon 
the toes. Turning above the waist only to look back at Marathe. 'You ever think of what 
it'd be like, speculate?' 

'Us, we think of what ends the Entertainment may serve. We find its efficacy tempting. 
You and we are tempted in different ways.' Marathe could identify no other Southwest 
U.S.A. constellations except the Big Dipper, which at this latitude appeared attached to 
the Great Bear to form something resembling the 'Big Bucket' or the 'Great Cradle.' The 
chair gave small squeaks when he shifted his weight upon it. 

Steeply said 'Well I can't say I've been tempted in the strictest sense of tempted.' 

'Perhaps we are meaning different things by this.' 

'Frankly, when I think of it I'm as much terrified as I am intrigued. Hank Hoyne is an 
empty shell. The iron will, the analytic savvy. His love of a fine cigar. All gone. His world's 
as if it has collapsed into one small bright point. Inner world. Lost to us. You look in his 
eyes and there's nothing you can recognize in them. Poor Miriam.' Steeply kneaded a 
bare shoulder. 'Willis, on the I/O night-shift, came up with a phrase for their eyes. 
"Empty of intent." This appeared in a memo.' 

Marathe pretended to sniff. 'The temptation of the passive Reward of terminal p, this 
all seems complex to me. Terror seems part of the temptation for you. Us of Quebec's 
cause, we have never felt this temptation for the Entertainment, or knowing. But we 
respect its power. Thus, we do not fool crazily about.' 

It was not that the sky was lightening so much as that the stars' light had paled. There 
became a sullenness about their light. Now, also, strange-looking U.S.A. insects whirred 
actively past from time to time, moving jaggedly and making Marathe think of many 
windblown sparks.